306	c: ? but everything else we would talk about would be private ?
301	c: so for today what we're looking at doing is helping you like i said come up with a plan for what you'd like to do we'll talk a little bit about what you've been doing
305	c: this might be a little bit different conversation from what you might have had with say doctors or nurses or other people you've run into who kind of tell what to do i'm not going to do that what i'd like to do is just kind of do some teamwork and figure out you know i'll kind of help you come up with ideas ? we find that when if you put pressure on people or try to make them make changes it doesn really work that well laughs
306	c: so do you have any questions before we get ?
117	t: don think
301	c: okay all right so well why don we start out if it's okay with just talking a little bit about what brought you here today what you hope to ?
119	t: um i was at the doctor and i saw the little advertisement on the wall my mom said i should call so i called and then they talked to me and they talked to her that's here i'm here today
327	c: okay so it sounds like you just saw something and thought that this might be interesting or helpful to you all right
343	c: and so what do you think of your ?
112	t: i think i've gained a lot more than i should be for my height probably
331	c: okay where do you think you should ?
112	t: not sure but i know i'm not supposed to be as much as i am
331	c: so has your doctor or nurse ever talked to you about ?
112	t: um i know once i was told that i was a little like probably 20 pounds over and that was a while ago but i know probably it's the same issue because i'm still the same height i think and i kind of gained more
331	c: okay and is that a concern to you at ? in what ?
109	t: because well actually i'm kind of active and i don see how it's still there but it's there and i've actually gained more since i just saw the weight
312	c: okay so it sounds like that's a surprise to you and you're not really sure where that comes from or how that would be given that you're active
109	t: i think it's probably birth control that's probably it but i was hoping that i could probably work it off and it's not really looking like it
312	c: so you're wondering if it's partly due to taking birth control if that's made you gain a lot of weight okay
302	c: and that might be an interesting question to ring up for your doctor they may be able to give you some more information about that i can give you some information about where you fall on-have you seen the growth charts that show like what percentile you're in for height and weight and that kind of ? i have one with your specific information on it if you'd like to look at it okay so let's see it's here so this chart right here is really just focused on weight but the people that you were working with earlier put your information into this growth chart and what it shows is that if we look at where somebody is for your age and if we look at you know enter in your height and it comes up with a bmi or body mass index shows that this yellow area would be somebody who's underweight this green area would be somebody who's in the expected range for weight this is over weight and this is the obese range and so that looks like that might be a surprise to you that you actually fall in what we call the 96th percentile anything over the 95th percentile is obese
324	c: does that surprise ?
109	t: yeah i thought i was just overweight
302	c: yeah yeah it's sometimes i mean people carry their weight differently and if you're very active and if you have a lot of muscle that may go into it a little bit too because muscle weighs more but if you look at this chart you can see that you know this range is where you fall right now this is the range that would be a healthy weight for somebody your height and age ? and it doesn give you information specific to the number of pounds it actually lists it by body mass index which is a calculation between height and weight
119	t: so this is saying i should be at least in this dark green line
302	c: yep that's the 50th percentile that's exactly average for your height and age so a bmi of 22 and you actually fall at i think it's 30 just about 30 ?
331	c: so what do you think about ?
119	t: that sucks
307	c: it sounds like it's not what you expected it's kind of an unhappy reaction that you're having right now well given this information this is not the end of the world it's just information saying that you know maybe there's something more that needs to be done than what you were thinking
331	c: what would you like to do with this ?
301	c: just going to stick it back in here
117	t: i don know
328	c: well have you done anything so ? i've mentioned that you've kind of been tracking on your weight and wondering if there's something that you need to do you kind of indicated by the way that you were today that that's surprising to you so you kind of have this sense that over time that you've weighed a little more than you expected
333	c: what have you tried to do about it if ?
106	t: probably just work out a lot more or push myself because we have like summer band camp or the in the outside in the heat and we run and then exercising so try to not stop myself and keep going but at least 0:07:11
313	c: so okay so one thing you have tried to do is you've tried to be a little bit more active and it seems you have some activity that you do already but you try to add on to that at the end
302	c: c so that is one thing that sometimes people do when they want to do what we call weight management so they try to be more active there are other things that people do too would you be interested in hearing about some of the other ? okay so people sometimes change what they eat and they change how much they eat and when i say they change what they eat they might make different choices so they might decide to have healthier foods like more fruits and vegetables for example and less junk food or less meat because those things tend to be higher in calories so the more calories you take in the more you weigh and it's a matter of kind of keeping a balance so your activity that you mentioned helps take away or burn some of the calories but it can do it all by itself so what a lot of people find is that they have to have a balance of both more activity plus changes to their eating
331	c: can you think of anything that you might like to ?
112	t: probably my eating laughs
323	c: okay what are you thinking about when you say ?
109	t: i like to try a lot of new things and maybe the things that i would try are kind of a lot more calories than they were supposed to be
331	c: okay can you give me an ?
109	t: well it's not new but last night my mom made corned beef sandwiches and yeah it's a lot of fat and you can see the fat in it
312	c: yeah corned beef is kind of fatty huh
343	c: so what about portion size meaning how much when you do eat do you feel like you eat the right amount or too much or too ?
103	t: i think i might eat a lot more than i should
331	c: okay how would you know ?
106	t: i don know but or reading the serving sizes i do sometimes but i would think that if it's something healthy take more serving sizes than it says and that probably
313	c: okay so you're talking a little bit on the idea that there is a serving size on labels that says how much of a certain thing you should have and that sometimes if it looks like it's probably a healthier item you might have a little more
334	c: okay what about junk food do you ever have junk food or things that are higher in ?
103	t: i do occasionally but not really a lot
302	c: okay so i do have some ideas on things that you might be able to change as far as nutrition goes and maybe you can look at some of the handouts i have and maybe make a choice about which one might be the best one for you to focus on would that be ? okay
301	c: i'm going to make sure you get these handouts that i'm showing you too because we're not going to be able to go over all of them today but let's see
343	c: do you do much eating out or do you pretty much eat at ?
106	t: pretty much eat at home
302	c: okay so some of these might be less relevant for you then so for example this hand out gives you information about different things that you drink and you can kind of compare the amount of calories like for example for a sports drink for these different sizes of drinks these are how many calories are in each-generally i mean some vary a little bit but you can see that if you had fast food drinks beverages meaning a fountain soda that you might also get at a store like a gas station people would get a fountain soda there you can see that a 12 ounce drink is usually between 110 and 120 calories whereas a sports drink is only 75 canned pop 12 ounces is 150 so that's even more than fountain drink then you can see there are some other choices here too like let's see if we can find another one that's pretty comparable well like a diet drink has no calories crystal light an eight ounce only has 5 which means a 12 ounce is not much more than that it's probably around seven or eight yeah
306	c: that's quite a difference from over here isn ?
302	c: yeah so some people decide that if they drink a lot of high calorie beverages that that's a real you know place that they could focus and make some big changes without a lot of effort this is another idea now these are-i'm going to show this one to you anyway just because it might be worthwhile looking at-but these are for restaurants and fast foods but i think the same would apply for if you had similar foods like in your home you can see that for burgers for example these are some healthy choices and these are some unhealthy choices now each of these would be about one serving each of these would be one serving but you can see if you choose these kinds of meals or items for your meal that you actually take in a lot less calories than you do with these kind of items there are some similar with chicken and tacos and a few others that we have too pizza if you like asian food
343	c: ? do these look familiar like kinds of things you guys might cook at ?
119	t: mm some of them
302	c: yeah so it's not a-it's not exactly what you're eating right now but it might give you kind of an idea of oh okay so maybe there are some things that we cook at home that we might make different choices and take in less calories the other thing is this right here you were talking earlier about serving size and portion sizes sometimes it can be really hard to know how much you're eating if you don have a label and these are kind of some guidelines to show you you know if you have typical items that you're familiar with like a computer mouse or a tennis ball or a baseball that gives you a good idea of what a one serving size for like a cup of cereal or a computer mouse which is about this big is a half cup size for the example that they're using is baked potato so that would also help you to watch serving sizes when you don have a label available to tell you
305	c: so if you were thinking about making some kind of change to food that might be helpful to you what do you think you might like to focus ?
112	t: probably the grocery list
311	c: the grocery list
331	c: what specifically are you thinking as grocery ?
112	t: i put a lot of things on the grocery list that are healthy but maybe mom don get it because of price ranges but maybe just finding cheaper healthy something
311	c: yeah so you're thinking of looking at foods that are available at the stores to see if maybe there are some healthier choices that aren quite as expensive
331	c: do you have any ?
112	t: i don really know because we buy frozen like frozen broccoli we get fresh broccoli every now and then or i don know if canned vegetables are the same i think it's different from fresh vegetables but
331	c: how do you think you could find ?
119	t: i don really think fresh vegetable has a calorie or listing on the back of it but maybe figure out some way
306	c: yeah do you have access to the internet at ?
324	c: ?
306	c: what about a ?
109	t: there's a library but i need a library card
310	c: oh i see okay so well you know what about books at the library or at your school library even do you think that there might be any that have information about calories in different kinds of ?
117	t: maybe so
302	c: you might check that out and see i mean i know that there are a number of books that are written so that might be one way to tell another way to tell is that usually unless they have sauce that is on them the frozen vegetables are pretty comparable to the fresh ones as far as nutrition and calorie content so maybe you might look at the label on a frozen vegetable and compare it to what a canned one says and see if it really makes a difference for you so that's another idea
331	c: how do you think you might keep track of whether or not you're making changes that will be helpful to ? 0:16:36
109	t: i would have to say checking my weight but i would need a scale to do that
333	c: so what do you think people do when they don have a scale and they want to know if their body size is ?
112	t: probably go get a physical
311	c: yep that's one idea is to go get a physical
302	c: there's something else that you could do day to day that might be helpful to you in knowing whether your body size is changing or not that's how tight your clothes fit so you can kind of use that as an estimate as you know like if you find that your pants are getting looser for example then you know that your size is going down yeah but by the same token if your pants are getting harder to button and that kind of thing then you know it's going up ? so those are some pretty decent ideas that you might be able to use
333	c: what about keeping track of the foods that you eat to see if they're helping you or not do you have any ideas on how you might do ?
106	t: probably keep a list of what i eat on a daily basis or a weekly basis
308	c: mm-hmm yeah that's a really good idea
331	c: how do you think that might help ?
112	t: probably if i see a change in how my weight is one week or it's two weeks go over like a month and see maybe i can try and do a lot more of what i did the month before
308	c: that's a really great idea
311	c: so you really see that if you had some kind of list that you could refer back to and you saw a change that you either liked or didn like you'd be able to look back and say "okay i see what helped me or i see what got in my way now i can make that particular change"
302	c: yep i have such a list here if you'd like to see it i can show you how to use it if you want okay so for keeping track of food  for example some people find it helpful to do just what you did and that is to write down what they've had and people choose to write down different bits of information about what they eat but i think like the main thing is what time and when what date that you ate something what it was you were talking a little bit about portion size or serving size so you might be able to write down how many servings you had some other information that you may find helpful is where the food came from so like for example did it come from the store or was it homemade did it come from a restaurant or did somebody else make it that kind of thing how many calories it has so you were talking a little bit about looking at the label and that's where you can get that information as you see changes that you like you might think to yourself "well gosh you know i really wanted to have this hamburger tonight but instead i had half a hamburger instead i had a sandwich" and so you can see you know choices that you make might be helpful to you too and if you were to do that compare what you wanted to what you actually had you might be able to calculate out how many calories you saved by making that choice too some people also find it helpful to evaluate how hungry they are when they eat to see if they're really eating when they're truly hungry or if they're eating just because the food was there you know and if so you might decide "huh i notice that i'm doing that a lot i better make some changes in that area" and other people find that mood is related to when and how much they eat too and these are things that like you mentioned unless you really have some list that you can refer back to it's hard to really know you can only really guess
305	c: could you see yourself using something like ? what do you think you might do with ?
106	t: probably just try to use it to the best of my ability 'cause i know some things might not have the calories on it
311	c: yep so maybe that sheet that i showed you before might be helpful this one that has different choices you might be able to use that to estimate when you don know exactly or if you were able to get some books from the library that might help you too yep so sometimes that is exactly what we do we do the best of our to what ability we have
331	c: how able do you feel to do something like ? like if we rated that on a scale of one to ten with you feeling like you know i'm just not able to do this at all being a one and ten you feel like you can go home and really do this and use it every ?
112	t: i have to say probably an eight or a nine
309	c: oh wow that's pretty high
331	c: how come an eight or a nine and not like a six or ?
112	t: because i think i can do it it's just probably remembering to do it
311	c: okay so remembering is the only thing you can see that might get in your way
333	c: what do you think you could do to avoid ?
112	t: probably an alarm setting on my phone maybe or something like that
302	c: mm-hmm so people do sometimes use reminders like that they set alarms on their phones or trying to think like when i really really want to remember something i try to put it somewhere where i'm going to see it
106	t: probably put it on my mirror
331	c: okay so is that some place that you feel like you might walk past or look in the mirror every day and that will help you to ?
112	t: 'cause i fix my hair every morning in my room
308	c: that's a really great solution that's a really nice way to be able to remind yourself of something that you don want to forget you put it where it's going to be in your way
333	c: so of all the things that we've talked about so far we've talked about changing drinks that you have or maybe changing the types or amounts of food that you have and we've talked about food logging what do you think is the most important change that you could make right now that you want to make right ?
112	t: changing the food intake
323	c: okay all right you were just about ready to say something more about that weren ? laughs
106	t: yeah because i mean the drink-wise i don drink pop i'm usually drinking water or juice so that's pretty handled right there so it's probably just the food
301	c: okay well would it be helpful to you to talk through a plan that you can actually use something you can take home with you and guide you through what changes you would like to ? okay i have one if you-i'm going to stick this away for now but i have a little plan that we can use and let's see this is one for you this is kind of a guideline that helps people talk through what changes they would like to make in planning for if something gets in your way what might it be and what could they do about it so that you don stall out on this really nice plan that you have we'll also talk a little bit about what the first step you could take and who could help you to stay on track with your goal some people prefer to just talk about this and other people would like to write it down so they can really take it home with them and use it
112	t: probably both
309	c: okay laughs that sounds like a good idea
305	c: would you like to be the one that ?
117	t: yeah
301	c: so let's start by saying if it's okay with you what your plan really is
112	t: to lose some weight
333	c: okay and what specifically are you going to change in order to lose some ?
106	t: change my eating habits
313	c: okay so your plan is to change your eating habits
331	c: so why is that important to ?
112	t: i want to get back to the old size i was because some of my favorite clothes i can fit anymore
309	c: uh-huh that's a really good motivation isn ? laughs
302	c: okay and now a lot of people find that you know as they're thinking through specific changes that they might like to make they can think of things that could stop them or get in their way make it difficult
344	c: can you think of anything that might make it difficult for you to be successful with your ?
106	t: probably traveling with the band we eat a lot of-well at least stop at a lot of fast food but i would like to-well i don really have no choice but to pack my own lunch
309	c: all right so you've come up with a barrier and a solution just in that one sentence
326	c: so you said that something that could get in your way would be the travelling with the band
308	c: you have so many good ideas
344	c: can you think of anything else that may get in your ?
109	t: probably our lunch break before band practice they send us to the store where there are really not a lot of healthy things at the gas station and at the deli place
307	c: yeah that can be really a difficult thing to overcome when you have limited choices
333	c: so what do you think you might do about ?
106	t: probably have to pack a lunch again too
309	c: that seems like a pretty decent solution
305	c: i mean i guess if you're in a situation where the choices that are available to you are pretty limited and they're a lot of high calorie items and you have the option to just bring your own that's one way that you can control what's going into your body
326	c: you mentioned something earlier and that is that you don get to do the grocery shopping that sometimes you ask for particular things and it can be difficult to get them into the house
344	c: is that something that you think might get in your way ?
112	t: i would have to say the only thing that i can possibly do is to get my own groceries laughs
331	c: mm-hmm are you able to do ?
109	t: not without a job
301	c: oh okay okay well let's see if we can figure out between us what might be a temporary solution
331	c: how important is it to you to have particular groceries in the ?
109	t: i'd rather have them but it's just not available when needed
307	c: yeah and that's a difficult thing isn it
310	c: do you feel like if you and your mom for example were able to come up with some ideas on healthier foods that maybe are not quite as expensive but better than some of the things that you have right now
331	c: do you think that that might be a good ?
112	t: it might
310	c: i mean maybe maybe not the healthiest most expensive foods but i bet there are some healthy choices that are not quite as pricey you know so that might involve some things like doing a little research or working together to come up with some compromises
344	c: so do you think of anything else that could get in your ?
112	t: not really
309	c: okay well you've got some pretty good things there it sounds like those are the main three things that get in your way for healthier eating
328	c: and now that we've talked through some ideas you have some new tools that you can use and you've talked a little bit about keeping track of what you eat that might be helpful to you
331	c: how confident do you feel like you can really follow through on this ?
112	t: really confident
331	c: okay so if we rate it on our scale of one to ten ten being the most confident one being not confident at all where do you ?
112	t: probably a nine
308	c: wow that's really impressive that's right up there yeah
331	c: and how come like i asked you before how come a nine and not i don know like a seven ?
112	t: because i really want to get back in my jeans
311	c: yeah laughs that's a pretty strong motivator for you isn it
309	c: it's a good thing we wrote that down so that you can see that every day
305	c: so what do you think would be the first steps you need to take in order to reach your ?
106	t: i don know probably have to say the food at home so get healthier choices or actually eating the healthier choices that are there
308	c: that's a really good distinction between the idea of having it available and actually using it yeah
311	c: yeah it sounds like this really is something important that you feel like you can make some significant changes that will be helpful to you
331	c: and what do you-what about ? who do you think could help you ? meaning that's this down here so something my-you could identify a person-could do to help you reach your goal what could she ?
308	c: that's a really nice-
323	c: so you want her to make some changes as well so you're not the only one
331	c: how do you think that will help ?
112	t: it will probably help push me more and probably push her more too
331	c: how important is it that you get that kind of support from ?
112	t: probably because she's having some of the same issues
311	c: okay so you see this as kind of a teamwork like if you work on it together you're both more likely to be successful yeah
308	c: well you have a pretty solid plan here i mean i really like the ideas that you came up with and it sounds like you really hit on some of the major things that you know will interfere if you're not able to take care of those things by following your solutions here
301	c: so at this point i need to meet with your mom for a few minutes excuse me and then i'm going to meet with both of you together while i meet with her she and i are going to talk about some similar things and i might ask her what her ideas are on how she could be supportive to you when we meet together we'll talk about the ideas that you each had and how they can fit together
305	c: when you share your plan with her and if you'd like to share your plan with her we can do it in a couple different ways would you like to share it by yourself when we all come ? would you like me to talk over some of your plan with her while i meet with ? what would work best for ?
119	t: probably if you talk over some of the plan with her
331	c: okay and why do you say ?
109	t: because a lot of stuff i say goes in one ear and out the other
311	c: oh so you feel like it won be more effective or she might hear it more if it comes from someone else okay
301	c: do you feel like you could talk about it also when we come back ? is it okay if i actually show it to ? okay well let's do that then i'm going to take you out in the other room and i think our research assistants have a couple things to do with you i'm going to bring your mom in here and then i'll come and get you when it's time ?
117	t: okay
