309	c: so nice to meet you
345	c: c how do you pronounce your name ?
117	t: sharlo
309	c: oh it's pretty
117	t: thank you
301	c: alright so they probably explained to you that i'm going to meet with you and then with your grandma and then we'll come together and that we are being videotaped so that we can learn more about you know the best ways to talk to kids about weight and things like ?
306	c: so what questions do you have about the videotaping or what we're going to do ?
117	t: none
305	c: okay okay well basically you know this might be a little different than other conversations you might have had around weight cause i'm not really here to tell you what to do or how to do it or what diet to go on i really want to find out your perspective and what if anything you're interested in changing and that's really you know what we want to do here cause we found that you know telling people to do things doesn really make a difference you have to figure out what it is you ?
306	c: so what do you think of that ?
112	t: i like that approach asking instead of just saying "you should do this" or "you should do that" it makes me feel better if you would suggest things that i can do that i like to do instead of just saying "oh you should do this" or "you go do that" or "eat this or
311	c: okay so you can see that it would be a benefit to figure it as what you like and what you feel confident doing versus kind of just telling you all these different things
343	c: so tell me you know just to start off with what your thoughts are about your weight and where you're at and what you want
112	t: i have high confidence but at times i get down about my weight like i know i should lose weight for myself because i'm only 16 and it's not healthy to be the weight that i am so me being the size that i am i can it's some things i can do like regular teenagers my age so i would like to lose weight but it was like and sometimes i think "oh i can do it" or "it's going to be too hard" and i'll just say "forget about it" and i just don want to do it at all so like lately like this summer i decided that i wanted to lose weight for myself and i'm going to try what i need to do to lose weight
305	c: right so you're the kind of person who is you know you're pretty confident in who you are
328	c: but you also are noticing that you're at a weight that's getting in your way you know and that there's things that you want to do that you know other kids can do that you can and so it's more it's not so much you think it's important but you're just not sure like how to go about ?
117	t: right
331	c: okay tell me more about the things other kids can do that you can that you know you want to change
112	t: like some kids they go out more like it's teen clubs or whatever now and sometimes i'm like oh i'm not going to go because people may say smart remarks to me or whatever and it may be conflict so i'm just going to sit at home and just watch tv or something
307	c: mm-hmm and it hurts
112	t: it hurts my feelings
328	c: yeah so you've noticed that there's a couple of things you're saying to me one is that you have friends that aren true friends because they make fun of you and that's just they shouldn be doing that either way but you're also you know noticing that you know because of where you're at with your weight that you're avoiding situations and you're maybe becoming less social and you don want it to be that way
117	t: right
305	c: okay so that's an important motivator for you
311	c: and you've also mentioned health that you know it's not healthy to be at this weight
331	c: tell me more about that
112	t: i know that i'm only 16 and i'm more than 300 pounds which is not good at all so and i'm going to get older so when i get older it's a possibility that i can gain weight and i don want to gain the weight at all i want to lose the weight so gaining weight will put me at a less advantage of my future and my health cause i want to grow older and get married and have kids and stuff
308	c: i see so this is something you've really thought about i mean i can tell you've put a lot of thought into it
311	c: c and you know you're weight is over 300 pounds and you don want it to be like that you know that's not healthy you have a future ahead of you you have plans you want a family and you know that as you get an adult it could get worse and so for you now's really the time that you want to make a change you've said this summer "this is it"
117	t: mm-hmm yeah
311	c: 308and now it's just a matter of figuring out what to do
117	t: right
331	c: when you were weighed today and you learned of your weight is that the first time you'd heard about where you're at or you kind of keep an eye on that
112	t: when i went to the doctor about a month ago it was 315 and today it's 321 and i wasn satisfied with that because it's like i gained what six pounds and that's not good in a month that's not good
311	c: right so you're worried that you're on like an upward trend and you want to be on a downward ?
117	t: right
333	c: okay so tell me what kinds of things you have tried or have thought about in terms of changing you know your behavior to reach your ?
112	t: c: okay
307	c: for yourself so you've had a lot of hurt feelings you know around the weight
328	c: cand you've noticed that people-you're feeling like people treat you differently and what you've tried so far is exercise and you liked it i mean you actually your face kind of lit up when you said it and it's something that you enjoyed but when your uncle left then it you know it stopped and it hasn started back up again and so that's one area that you're considering a change is to think about how to get more active and you even notice that not only did you feel good but you started to lose some weight
117	t: mm-hmm
331	c: okay so we can talk more about activity what other things have you thought about in terms of losing ?
106	t: i've tried the food intake stuff and during the school year it's very hard because the school that i go to i go to cas tech and they sell chicken and bosco sticks and all this other food and it's so tempting that you buy it and it's like you eat the food there and then you go home and you eat the same food so it's like "oh well i guess i'll eat this again cause it's here and it's easier" whatever so now my mommy and i we're trying to get on a diet and not eat the fast food and the fattening food that we eat and stuff and we eat tv dinners that are like smart ones and stuff like that so we could watch our food intake and stuff
328	c: okay so you're recognizing that you want to eat less and less fatty foods and you're worried cause school is very tempting but you're also recognizing that even if you mess up at school there's also home and so you're thinking about with your mom and you call her your mom that with your mom that making some changes kind of as a team might be the way to ?
117	t: right
301	c: okay so it sounds like you've thought about changes in activity and you've thought about changes in your food you know we're only here for one day one time today although we can tell you about some other programs that we ?
305	c: but you know if we think about some small changes that you can make you know when you leave here today that you want to make and that you feel confident you know let's first talk about exercise
333	c: you know what kinds of things do you think you might be able to start doing in the next couple weeks around your ?
112	t: i can start cause it's a treadmill in my home i can start walking on the treadmill or we have on the tv they have like little a place you can go on demand they have yoga and stuff like that because yoga i like yoga too like i've never went to like a class at like a place but it seems like i'll like it and it's a lot of mentally stabilitation in yoga and i really like it
311	c: mm-hmm so you like the mental and the physical benefits of yoga and then you mention the treadmill
302	c: c so i have some information here about what the recommendations are for physical activity to lose weight would you like to take a look at ?
117	t: mm-hmm
305	c: and again these are just recommendations so it's up to you to make it fit like you said for you ? so okay
302	c: so okay so the ultimate goal and again you know i'm not saying that tomorrow you're going to start it but is you want to try to do some activity for an hour a day
117	t: okay
306	c: and three days a week of those should be like more intensive like you know you said the treadmill and then the other days you could do a mix of treadmill stretching which would be-actually yoga does strength and stretching so this kind of gives you a nice picture of what to do at least you know what your long term goals 60 minutes a day of or 60 minutes three days a week of high intensity and then adding some other things so given you know what do you think of ?
117	t: right
308	c: but you also have some really good ideas about how to implement some of the stuff at home so thinking about this plan you know what could you see starting tomorrow or ? what could you see doing ?
333	c: okay so if you see the treadmill being your high intensity ?
117	t: mm-hmm right
306	c: so it sounds like you have some really good ideas on how to get started and that for you the key is going to be just doing something everyday and maybe not the perfect thing which would be the gym but you know a substitute okay so did i get that ?
117	t: yes
311	c: i mean it sounds like that's something you really would like
302	c: so i can leave this with you because it'll just help you track like you know your goal of trying to do something everyday and maybe eventually working up to this what do you see as getting in the ?
344	c: what would get in the way of your plan today let's say you know leaving and starting ?
109	t: i think getting in the way is myself and i think at times the majority of the time that i can do it and i like to see results quickly and i know that it's not going to happen like that so in my head i'm like "oh if i can see it like in maybe two weeks that i've lost like ten 20 pounds then i don want to do it"
308	c: okay so that's a really excellent you know insight kind of into yourself that
305	c: kind of person that wants to see quick results and sometimes you have results that are unrealistic and you know that you know you're going to get discouraged and kind of give up and like you don want that to happen
302	c: so if it's okay with you we could talk a little bit about what are some realistic goals and how you can see if your plan is ?
305	c: okay is that something you'd like to ?
117	t: mm-hmm
302	c: okay so you know typically for weight loss we're looking at a goal of one to two pounds a week so if you are losing a pound a week you know that would be something you should be excited about which is not ten or 20 pounds in a month but it's like about a pound a ?
306	c: so what do you think of ?
112	t: i like that idea because it's more realistic and it's something that i know i can do if i really put my mind and time into it
311	c: okay so a pound a week is something that you think is reasonable and you like the idea of having like a more realistic goal so that you can be excited about ?
117	t: mm-hmm
331	c: so how would you monitor that pound a ? do you you know what do you have a scale at home or would you have to go somewhere else or you know what would be your ?
106	t: i don have a scale at home but i will be trying to get one as soon as i possibly can and then i'll be like working out and stuff and then like at the end of the week i'll see what i've lost and then i'll write it down and then so on and so forth
302	c: okay alright so you're interested and the other thing to realize is weight can go up and down so you might look at it every week but don make a decision on whether you're successful until the end of the month you know what i'm ? like if you've lost-cause some weeks like if you have your period or you've had a lot of salt you're weight can be higher but if you've lost like about four pounds by the end of the month you know then you know you're on ?
313	c: so it sounds like one of the steps you're talking about is getting a scale and that would help you
305	c: so some teens find it helpful to write their goals on a piece of paper and other teens just prefer to talk about them which would you ?
112	t: i like a mixture of both
305	c: okay so you can have you write or i could write for you based on what we've discussed what would you ?
119	t: you can write
333	c: okay so your plan is ?
106	t: my plan is to basically to exercise more to eat less of fatty foods and to get more self confidence in my weight loss
313	c: okay so eat less fatty foods and more confidence
305	c: okay and you've also noticed that with your exercise you start to feel more confident even if you're not showing results immediately just doing it makes you feel better so it sort of all fits together ?
333	c: so exercise more you had some specific ideas maybe we'll put that down on what were some of the things you're going to do right away in terms of exercising ?
106	t: i'm going to get on the treadmill more frequently and do weights
313	c: okay you're going to do get on the treadmill and you want to do weights
106	t: and yoga definitely yoga
313	c: and you mentioned yoga you know that there's some tv programs
333	c: c what do you know about when they are and when you know when to check them ?
112	t: they're on on demand because we have comcast so it's under the fitness channels
313	c: so you already have a plan
117	t: yeah
333	c: you got yoga on demand you know the channel it's just making that hour a day to do it okay and you know on a scale from one to ten where one is like "i'm not at all going to really do this i'm just saying it cause i want to" and ten is "i'm definitely going to do it" how committed are you to trying to get in that one hour a day of ?
106	t: i'm at a ten
313	c: you're at a ! you are like "i'm ready to go i'm going to start this when i go home" okay so i'm going to put then in one hour a day of just something right now even if it's a combo of you know ten minutes walking the dog ten minutes of yoga or something but you're going to do an hour a day
326	c: you mentioned a very important thing that might get in the way which is getting discouraged if you don see quick results
117	t: right
313	c: and you also came up with a plan for ?
333	c: how are you going to manage ?
106	t: i'm going to set more realistic goals and stop having so much self-doubt
308	c: mmm you are you have a really beautiful way with words
313	c: okay set more realistic goals and not have so much self-doubt
333	c: reduce self-doubt okay and what is your ?
119	t: my goal for the whole weight ? or
333	c: yeah or what's the realistic goal you're trying to set for yourself so that you don have ?
106	t: my realistic goal like for let's say about maybe i'm going to say five months because that's what i'm planning for
302	c: okay so let's think about the pound to two pounds a week
331	c: so how much would that be in a month if you were going to lose one to two pounds a ?
119	t: it would be approximately four pounds
302	c: okay four pounds and over five months then that would be 20 so maybe 20 to 40 pounds
117	t: right
306	c: might be more might be realistic based on that does that make sense to ?
117	t: mm-hmm
313	c: okay so five months 20 to 40 pounds
333	c: c okay and you had a plan for monitoring that so that you keep up the program what was your plan for ?
106	t: my plan for losing the weight and for being on my program was to basically do more exercising and to eat less of the fatty foods and to get my nutrition better because i know that it's not as good as it can be
308	c: so but we need to talk about some nutrition goals it sounds like also okay you mentioned weight about the scales so i'm going to put that down here that you're going to get a scale and weigh yourself once a week but you're going to look more at like the month you know
117	t: right
112	t: i want to eat more vegetables and fruits
302	c: so you know if you're talking about vegetables with salt versus chips with salt it's you know you're saying that vegetables with salt even if the salt's not great it's still better than the chips with salt so it sounds like maybe substituting you know at least once a day vegetables instead of chips how many times a day do you eat ?
103	t: like a day maybe once or twice a day
311	c: okay so you're thinking that if you eat vegetables instead of chips and maybe limit your chips to a certain number of times that might be worthwhile
117	t: yeah
333	c: so how would you like me to write ?
106	t: eat less of eat less snack food like i'm going to go slow and try to every once like once a week or something
305	c: eat snack food only-what's realistic for ? i mean if you're eating it twice a day and you drop it to a couple times a week that's still going to be a big change you know so what's really realistic for you that you feel like you can stick ?
106	t: three times a week
313	c: okay so eat snack food only three times a week ?
344	c: okay what do you see getting in the way of ?
109	t: that it's in the house and if it wasn there i couldn get it because i don drive and i can walk to the store to get it so
330	c: okay
112	t: if it's not in the house i can have it at all
331	c: okay so how are we going to fix that ?
106	t: not buy it
313	c: okay don ?
332	c: okay who buys the snack ?
109	t: my mom and sometimes i do when i'm out
331	c: okay so let's talk about some of the things your mom can do to help cause we're going to meet her next
109	t: she can because i know that she's older because my birth mom died giving birth to me and that's my grandma and she adopted me so that's the only mom i know so i know that she's older and she can like exercise as much as with as me as she wants to and she's unemployed at the time but she works sometimes from like nine to one at this place downtown so it's like we don do as much as we want with each other with the weight stuff like we don exercise and stuff and we don spend a lot of time with each other because when she's not home i don since it's summer i don really wake up until like 12 or oneish so when she gets home i'm just getting up and then she's tired so she goes to bed and
312	c: so really relying on her for exercise isn an option right ?
117	t: right
311	c: you did mention two other areas that she could help with which is the scale and the snacks
117	t: right
331	c: so what would like me to write down in terms of something she could help you do in those ?
112	t: she can get the scale
331	c: okay and does she have resources for ?
117	t: mm-hmm
311	c: okay so get a scale
302	c: okay okay and before you leave i want to double check about if we have any recommendations for scales that are accurate you know where your weight ?
331	c: so get a scale and what ?
112	t: and she can not buy as much snack food as she does
311	c: okay so no buying snack food cause if you're going to only do it three times a week then that could be the days that you go you know and get it
117	t: right
311	c: versus just having it around you'd actually have to go get it
310	c: okay so no buying snack food but you did mention some strengths which is that she already has lots of fruits and vegetables in the house
311	c: it's just like you need to if there's nothing else then maybe you'll eat them
117	t: right
309	c: okay so this sounds like a really good plan that you want to exercise more and you're going to start with an hour a day but mixing it up cause you're ready to get on the treadmill an hour everyday but you are ready to mix it up yoga treadmill you know walking around weights and you're very committed to this and you're going to weigh yourself once a week with a goal of a pound to two pounds a week
328	c: and you're going to limit snack food by asking your mom not to buy it and bring it in the house
117	t: right
331	c: and why do you want to do ?
305	c: just in your own words so i can put it down here
112	t: i want to do this because i have a future and i know that i want to succeed in life because i like to sing and that's what my profession i want that to be my profession when i get older and i want to have a husband and kids and i want to basically watch them grow up and be active in their life
311	c: so you want-you have a future and you want to be healthy and active with your ?
117	t: right
309	c: okay well that sounds like a good reason to me and it sounds like again that this is you're really feeling like now is the time that you've been upset about this for awhile it's affected your friendships it's affected your social life and you're worried about it affecting your health and you're really ready for a change and you've made some kind of very specific goals because you know that if you set these huge goals then you kind of give up
328	c: but if you set kind of very specific realistic goals then you're more likely to do it
117	t: okay
309	c: okay well that sounds great
306	c: is there anything else that you wanted to bring up related to this ?
301	c: so i'm going to meet with your mom and i can go over this with her i can kind of talk about it more in general and wait for you to come and talk with her what would you ?
119	t: you can talk about it with her
301	c: okay alright so then i'll leave it and then when you come together we'll kind of share together what we came up with
117	t: okay
308	c: okay so come on great job
117	t: thank you
