301	c: destiny i'm lisa todd it's nice to meet you
305	c: to let you know a little bit about the way that we'll work together is i'm here to help you talk a little bit about weight loss and what you might like to do but i'm not here to tell you what to do so really this is kinda your show i'll help you come up some ideas and maybe you and i can come up with something together that you might like to do the other thing is that we've kinda found that just telling people what to do doesn really work very well so you might have had that experience before in your life where people just tell you- boss you around a little bit it's not quite as effective as coming up with your own plan so that's why we do that is we figure that's the better way to go okay
301	c: so you and i will meet for about 20 minutes and then i'm gonna meet with your aunt and then i'll bring the two of you together and we'll talk for another 20 minutes or so
306	c: and whenever i'm meeting with your aunt you have some other stuff that you're gonna do with our research staff and you might wait in the waiting room a little bit too so so do you have any questions before we get ?
117	t: mmm no
343	c: okay so well how about if we just start by talking a little bit about your weight and how you feel about it what you've heard
112	t: um i really don know what to say because i know that i'm kinda overweight but i do wanna lose weight and i know i should lose weight like and as far as i do like it's hard for me to lose weight because every time i gotta do sports i don lose weight and i'll notice why i don i should lose weight so
331	c: well tell me a little bit more about that if you would about the idea that you should lose weight where does that idea come ?
106	t: 'cause like i like i work very hard to lose weight when i'm doing sports but just if i just it just doesn go off i just don lose weight
307	c: so on one hand you feel like there's a need to lose some weight and on the other hand you feel a little frustrated that you've tried to and it doesn really seem to work out for you
325	c: but at the same time i hear a little bit in your voice as you're talking too that you don it sounds like you're not really sure you need lose weight or how much maybe
306	c: is that ?
332	c: can you tell me a little bit more about that not being sure that you need ?
106	t: i'm not really positive 'cause of how like i know i have to lose weight 'cause it's good for my health and i do want to lose weight but but if i like me and my cousin we my auntie says we go we have to go to the well we do go to the like i mean the a club called the boys and girls club and i do activities there and i go to the park every weekend and i still don lose weight and that's kinda frustrating
304	c: okay so you really try to make sure that you are very active you do a lot of stuff that involves moving around and running around too that sort of thing but it seems like it doesn change your weight and you're kind of curious as to why that might be
332	c: is that something that makes you wonder if you really do need to lose ?
117	t: yes
331	c: ? how about your ? have you talked to your ? have they made any ?
120	t: they said that i had this thing called thyroids i just found out that i had it 'cause my when i was living with my other aunt she didn tell you know my other aunts that i had it so we just found out this summer
306	c: what does that mean for ? do you ?
120	t: 'cause i really don know what thyroids is what it does to you but the doctor says that it's not it's not going to affect me losing weight
328	c: oh okay alright so it's an interesting thing you have found out that you have a thyroid condition but you're not really sure what that means for you and as far as your what you've learned from your doctor it's not something that should affect your weight
301	c: so i have a little bit of information about that that may might be helpful if you would like to hear it okay i don know a lot about thyroid but i do know that for some people it does make it more difficult to either lose weight or gain weight if that's not true based on what your doctor says it might be worth just checking in once in a while to find out if that's something that changes over time
117	t: okay
331	c: okay now has anybody ever shown you a chart that shows where your weight falls compared to other people your ?
119	t: yes my doctor did
331	c: where did you ?
119	t: it's like inaudible when i was on the inaudible i was really skinny and as like inaudible bad and when i didn live with anyone i started to develop weight so then they showed me where i was and i was like where i supposed to be inaudible over where i'm supposed to be
327	c: okay and so let's see i guess it sounds like some things have changed over time for you yeah okay
331	c: so if you were think about you know whether you should work on weight loss or you need to can you think about rating yourself on a scale of one to ten with one being you don need to lose any weight at all and ten being you need to lose quite a bit where would you say that you ?
112	t: five
331	c: okay so right in the ? what makes you think you're at a five instead of at a four or even a ?
115	t: 'cause i'm really to me i think to me i think that i'm really not that big compared to other people that are bigger than me 'cause it's like i know i could lose weight but it's difficult for me to lose the weight and it's like i see other girls that are like much bigger than me but the kids at school they call me fat and stuff and but there is other girls that are bigger than me and they don say nothing about them
325	c: okay so it sounds like some hurtful things have been said and that kinda makes you feel like okay maybe maybe i do need to make some changes but at the same time you don feel like you need to compared to some other people your age you're smaller ?
117	t: mm-hmm
307	c: so it must be confusing for you sometimes
302	c: i have a little chart if you don mind taking a look at it with me that shows your weight compared to the weight of some other girls your age you may have seen something like this before 'cause you mentioned having a chart that you've looked at so this chart right here takes your height and weight and puts it on this-
306	c: have you seen one of these charts ?
117	t: no
302	c: okay so this is what's called a growth chart and it really just says for somebody who is your age and your what they call body mass index which is a computation of your height and your weight that this green section right here is the average this is too little weight this is overweight this red area is what they call obese so anything over that 95th percentile this is where you are right here so you're in the 98th percentile which means that even though you might not feel like you're bigger than some of the other girls the computation between how tall you are and how much you weigh for your age is much on the larger side
117	t: okay
306	c: does that help to put things in perspective as far as where you stand compared to some other girls your ?
323	c: okay
307	c: now this isn necessarily a bad a bad thing that you can do anything about and i wouldn want you to get the message that that means that the things that some of the other girls have said about you are true because those are mean things that shouldn be said to anybody ?
311	c: but you mentioned something earlier and that is that for your health maybe some things need to change
308	c: that's a really good way of looking at it is for your health long-term it sounds like some things do need to make some changes
331	c: so what do you think as far as the kinds of things that help people to lose weight ? what would people do when they wanna lose ?
119	t: work out every day
329	c: work out okay i'm gonna put this away
106	t: they do active stuff probably three times a week i do that they eat better food they don eat inaudible snack they don get a big meal and they don um well that's it
308	c: okay well you have a lot of really good ideas it sounds like you have quite a bit of knowledge about these things
310	c: so what i hear from you is that for people who want to be a smaller size they do a few things they spend more time being active and you mentioned about three times a week activity they make some changes to their eating which includes more healthy foods smaller portions eating smaller amounts of foods and less often so for snacks so eating less frequently those are exactly the kinds of things that people will get recommendations from their doctor to do
306	c: so do you mind me asking where you got the information about ?
101	t: nowhere
308	c: you just seem to kinda know it well i mean those are some super good ideas so
331	c: how do you feel about making some of those ?
112	t: positive 'cause i half of the stuff i already do and like the other half i probably should do more of more of it at home and when i'm away from home that's basically it
331	c: okay so if you wanted to make some changes in the areas where you're not already doing these things how important is that to you to make those kinds of ? we can use our one to ten scale with one being not at all important you're probably not gonna make any changes at all to ten being the most important thing in your life right now
120	t: like what do you mean by ?
311	c: you mentioned that you felt like there were some areas that you could make some changes that you're not doing right now
331	c: how important would it be to you to make any ? um as far as food and ?
112	t: i'll say i would give it a seven
311	c: okay that's pretty high up there seven
331	c: how come a seven and not like a five or a ?
106	t: 'cause like that's i already do all of most of that stuff so i would just have i would like try to add it onto my list of doing the more healthier stuff like we used to eat a lot of fried foods then me and my cousin we said we asked him mom can she start making us baked chicken or vegetables wow okay and we can go to the park more
313	c: so you've been asking for help with your food the kinds of foods that you eat and the way they're prepared you've also been asking for permission to go and do more activity it sounds like okay
301	c: so if you and i were to spend some time coming up with some ideas for specific things you could do what would be most valuable to you for us to work ?
120	t: um can you like say that ?
329	c: i sure can yeah threw a lot of words in there didn ? laughs
305	c: so if you and i were to come up with say a plan of something that you could do to make some healthy changes what would you like to work on with ?
112	t: not eating so much food okay and not eating a late night snack okay so it sounds and eating more fruits and vegetables
311	c: so changes in eating are important to you you have three areas that you're looking at one is cutting out the late night snack one is eating a little bit less and another one is adding in some more fruits
306	c: is that ?
117	t: mm-hmm
302	c: okay alright so largely if you want to focus on changes in eating i have an idea for something that we could do if you're interested i have a plan a sheet that will help us make a plan for a change that you might like to make would you be interested in working on ? sure
305	c: okay alright so maybe we could pick one of those that you feel like is the most important thing you could start with and then you of course can come up with your own plans for the others so if we were gonna make some important changes to the way that you eat food you named three important things we could pick one of them and say that my plan is to and then say what it is that you would like to change and then we can fill in some of these other ideas of how you might go about doing that so what would you like to pick to work ?
112	t: not getting so much food
305	c: okay so how about if i could i give the pen to ? would you like to write your own ? that way it's in your words so let's see so when you get out of here today if your big focus is on having less food when you eat you've got that written down here how about if we think about why you want to do this what would that particular change be very important to ?
112	t: 'cause like until you start if you stop eating so much food you won you can get full much quicker and then you like you if you get a big plate then you might then your stomach's just gonna expand out as you eat and if you just constantly inaudible yeah probably constantly well frequently wait no constantly eating a lot of food a lot of food it can you can just get full much quicker and you won have to go for seconds or stuff like that inaudible
310	c: so what i hear a little bit too is this idea that you have to let yourself be full instead of eating more food you didn say this but maybe eating faster makes people not realize that they're full right away so those are some ideas
305	c: so if we were to say in like one sentence why this is the most important thing to you to start right now how can we boil that down to just a few words that you can remember what would you like to have in your ?
112	t: not to get all that food on my plate
311	c: okay so let's see so your plan is to not get so much food on one plate
331	c: and why that's important why you want to do that
112	t: so i can get full much faster
311	c: so learning how to slow down and stop before you're overfull sounds like an important thing for you
344	c: okay so if you were to think about what might stop you from doing this would you wanna get a smaller portion of food on your ? what might make you get too much ?
109	t: i guess when i see something that i could just get it
312	c: so something that could get in your way is seeing food that you like
344	c: and what would stop you from only taking a little bit or taking a medium sized ?
120	t: so i'll put in what would get in the ?
310	c: yeah and that's what we're talking about right now in helping you to think about the things that would stop you from getting a smaller portion of food
117	t: okay so
308	c: and you mentioned a really good one inaudible is when you see something you like that sometimes you get too much
120	t: so put that
305	c: sure you're the expert in the things that happen to you so these ideas that are coming from you are especially helpful
308	c: pause that seems like a really what i would call insightful comment meaning that you see something that you do that a lot of people wouldn notice that they do that's pretty smart that you picked up on that
301	c: so if this was to happen if you found yourself doing this let's make a plan for what you could do instead
112	t: try to get something besides i'll get something much healthier than that
311	c: so if you see something that you really like what it sounds like you're telling me is that if you see something you like that instead you could
112	t: yes or i could just get like one tiny spoonful or i could just get a piece of fruit
328	c: okay so you mentioned two things one is that you'll tell yourself to take less and two you could just substitute a healthy food instead
308	c: okay so you have two really great ideas
323	c: and yes you're correct i see that you're getting ready to write
305	c: you could write each of those if you would like to
120	t: i forgot what i said
305	c: so think about yourself in this position if you come across some food that you really like pause
309	c: so those are two good ideas
305	c: do you feel like those would work for ?
120	t: the first step that i could take in order to reach my goal is dot dot dot
305	c: yep so if you were to think about inaudible when you leave out of here today what's the very first thing you could start ? um to reach this goal
112	t: go home and get apple or like but i have these little things that i get from wal-mart and it comes with apples and peanut butter would i be able to eat ?
302	c: do you know anything about looking at labels like how to read labels and what to look for on ? do you mind if i show ? i have some things in here that might be helpful
308	c: so and you- you're asking a really great question
313	c: and i hear you saying is there are some foods that you think might be healthy choices but you're not positive and you wanna check in and make sure
329	c: let's see i'm not sure what i have i don think i have something on label reading but maybe this will do let's see this isn quite what i was hoping to find but this might help us
302	c: so this is a list of healthy foods that could be found in restaurants and fast food choices i know that sometimes these burger restaurants like burger king and mcdonalds have things like this that are like healthy choice this yogurt parfait so if we were to look at healthy choices versus unhealthy choices one of the things that i'm looking at is how big this number is
306	c: do you know what that might ?
119	t: the ?
309	c: you're exactly right
302	c: yep so for something that looks like a snack 200 calories is about what they're saying is a good snack size
306	c: so do you know where the calories are on the labels nutrition ?
119	t: the ?
309	c: mm-hmm yep
302	c: so if you were to look at the back of that peanut butter and apple snack that you mentioned and you say that it was about that big or maybe even around 100 then that would be a pretty good size snack
119	t: i have a question so like and this one says energy but inaudible that like inaudible things to fresh inaudible and no not that one yep the chicken nuggets or tenders it's right here it says that one the-the chick-a regular single patty inaudible mayo or cheese is 250 and this one says 250 when shouldn that be on this half 'cause it has ?
308	c: that's a really really good point that you're making
302	c: and so one of the things that's not said on here is that it's not only the calories that make foods healthy or unhealthy it's the way they're prepared because they can have other things in them
119	t: 'cause it's fried
309	c: yeah
302	c: so the fried foods have a lot of oil in them what we call saturated fats so those foods even though the calories might not be as high for this as they are here it still makes this a less healthy choice than this
308	c: but that's a really great question so it seems like you do have some knowledge about calories and food ingredients and that kind of thing and that's gonna help you quite a bit when you wanna make some other changes too
329	c: so the reason that i brought this out was to try to answer your question about those apples and peanut butter snacks
331	c: so do you feel like you'd be able to look at the back of the label and tell whether or not that's a good ?
117	t: mm-hmm
313	c: okay alright so you mentioned the first thing that you can do when you leave here today to reach your goal is to get a healthy snack
306	c: is that what you were ?
106	t: yes inaudible yeah peanut butter and apples inaudible to get a snack that's like peanut butter and i mean yeah peanut butter and apples
310	c: yep you could say that it also sounds like a bigger point that you're making is that choosing a healthy snack instead of an unhealthy snack seems like the big message that you're getting at there pause
301	c: so for a moment before we move onto that last part of the plan let's think for a second about the idea that kids don always get to choose what kind of food is available to them
331	c: do you feel like making healthier choices for your snacks and your meals is something you'd be able to ? mm-hmm meaning is that food available for ?
117	t: yes
301	c: okay and that's an important thing for us to think about 'cause i wouldn want to help you come up with a plan that you wouldn be able to do without somebody else's help so the last part of your plan is how somebody could be supportive to you meaning how they can help you be successful and so we should choose somebody who you feel like is around often enough
112	t: my um aunt
301	c: okay so let's stick something my aunt can do
112	t: she could when i'm doing when i'm eating something that i should i could not be eating but so i can choose something healthy she could tell me not to eat it
309	c: okay that sounds like a really great suggestion
311	c: so you're thinking of ways that she could really be supportive to you pause inaudible
323	c: you have a lot of ideas ?
301	c: so at this point now you have a plan that you can take home with you and you can put it in some place where you might see it and remember that this is something important you said a seven out of ten important that you would like to work on it and you have some ideas about how your aunt could help you so this is just one step this is one important change that you would like to make it doesn mean that there aren other things you might like to do too but this is the thing that you've chosen as your goal ? at this point in a moment i'm gonna walk you out into the waiting room and i'm gonna be with your aunt for a little bit and i'm gonna help her come up with some ideas too we can choose to share your plan if you would like to and if you would like to share it with your aunt we could do that in a couple different ways you could either share it yourself when the two of you come back together or i could talk with it-with her a little bit about it and then we could talk about it again when the two of you are together in the room
305	c: what would be best for ?
119	t: for you to talk about it with her
306	c: okay is it okay if i show it to ?
117	t: mm-hmm
308	c: so she can ? okay sounds good
301	c: well you did some really good work here i think you came up with a pretty good plan that fits with what you said you wanted to do and that was to work on changing to healthy eating
306	c: okay so how about ? i'm gonna stick your plan here for a minute and then i am going to include your aunt and when i'm finished meeting with her i'm going to come get you and then we'll all three meet together ? before i do that do you have any ?
117	t: no
309	c: alrighty well thank you for meeting with me for a few minutes
301	c: let me walk you out here ?
