343 c: to get to get to this point and how do you feel about your weight ?
112 t: it should be lower that what i think
331 c: well what type of thing have you thought of ?
112 t: probabl eat healthier becaus i'm veri activ
333 c: what kind of stuff tell me a littl more about that
331 c: what go on with those ?
106 t: yeah by not eat them especi like everi day have mayb a sucker if that and then have an appl and stay away from red meat and stuff like that
112 t: i would probabl chang and probabl make it my effort to do everyth great
331 c: tell me a littl bit more what you mean by do it right
112 t: like mayb instead of drink pop now probabl dr pepper or someth i never realli drink water or mayb even tea like a green tea or someth like that
331 c: whi would you want to do some of those thing ?
112 t: mayb to lose weight make my appear better mm-hmm and to make a healthier bodi choic instead of when you get older have diabet and thing and high blood pressur yes becaus on my dad side high blood pressur run and i'm liabl to get it and my mom side diabet
106 t: mayb instead of go for the pop i can go for a glass of ice water or mayb green tea
331 c: you'r pretti smart that you know that those have extra calori in them hmm where did you learn about all that stuff ? awesom all right so by you know cut out some of those calori well whi whi would you want to you know
344 c: now we get to a littl bit of the tough part where you realli got to think like what are some thing that could get in the way okay so you'v come up with some real thing anyth els that might get in the way ?
333 c: well what could you do if a new drink come out and you'r realli work on drink the water
106 t: mayb find a new flavor of water they sell like a watermelon flavor or someth like that mm-hmm or for this part mayb go for a glass of ice water start drink water more tri to get use to the flavor and everyth
331 c: and what is someth that she could do to help you reach your goal of drink more water ?
112 t: mayb not buy much pop in the hous or mayb not buy so much sugar and stuff like that
331 c: so what kind of thing in the hous would be a good option ?
112 t: mayb flavor water gatorad crystal light and mayb stuff like is ginger ale healthi ?
331 c: all right give me what you got
112 t: i like learn so you could mayb look at the label befor you just pick them up and buy it yeah
331 c: and what would you do you think on there if you were go to pick up the label would you be look at ? well on a like a scale of one to ten think about all that stuff if one is not at all confid and ten is veri confid how confid would you say that you are that you'd be abl
112 t: an eight
331 c: so tell me whi you'r an eight and say not like a six
106 t: becaus i know i drink a lot of water alreadi but i also have crave soda pop and stuff like that but i know i can cut that out by drink someth flavor like flavor water yeah
306 c: what do you think of those type of product ?
112 t: i would love diet ice tea becaus it not like drink tea that yeah
331 c: so what would it take to bump you up a littl higher like two a nine ?
112 t: mayb have it not be around me so much yeah that would probabl bump me up to a ten
