301 c: i'm go to be talk with you for a few minut this is just to remind you this is the part where we turn on the camera okay ? and most it just to watch me so laugh also i want to let you know that anyth you say in here is confidenti unless you let me know that you'r go to hurt yourself or somebodi els or if you tell me about a child or a an elder person who in troubl okay ? okay so i want you to be abl to feel comfort talk with me the other thing too to keep in mind is that you may have talk with other peopl befor but the talk that you do with me will be a littl bit differ i'm not go to tell you what to do becaus it turn out that doesn't work so well when you boss peopl around they don't like it but i am go to help you figur out what you'd like to do okay ? okay
306 c: so do you have ani question befor we get start ?
117 t: no
343 c: okay so well let jump in and and tell me you know what brought you in today ?
117 t: i don't know
307 c: you don't know somebodi just told you to show up huh ? okay
302 c: well i know that this is a weight loss project so that the main topic for our convers is to talk about weight loss
343 c: what do you think about your weight ?
112 t: that it not healthi
311 c: that it not healthi
331 c: what about it do you think is not healthi ?
112 t: i need to eat right and do more activ
329 c: mm-hmm are you say that i just want to clarifi becaus i didn't quit understand the first thing you said
311 c: you said that you need to eat right and do healthi activ is that what you said ?
308 c: okay those are some good idea
331 c: have you been think about those for a while ? yeah can you tell me a littl more about that ?
117 t: i don't know
327 c: you don't know
311 c: okay well so let return to this to the to the topic of weight for a moment you said that one of the thing that you think that you need to do is to eat right and to do some healthi activ
308 c: that a realli great place to start
333 c: you know when you think about yourself do that what do you pictur yourself do ? or have you mayb start alreadi ?
120 t: start are you talk about like join someth ?
360 c: say that again ?
120 t: are you talk about join someth like do the
302 c: that one thing that sometim peopl do is they join a group or
112 t: i want to join a basketbal team
333 c: you do ? what do you what do you pictur yourself do on the basketbal team ?
117 t: inaud and i don't know
331 c: yeah well do you have a posit you would like to play ? no or you just like the idea of play ?
112 t: i'm just like talk about sport i like okay basketbal uh-huh and cheerlead
311 c: okay so you'r pictur yourself join some pretti activ sport
117 t: yes
308 c: mm-hmm those are realli great idea if you were think about way to exercis either of those realli would be good way to get in a lot of exercis so
333 c: is there anyth that you'v start do alreadi ? no so you have some thought ?
117 t: no
311 c: well so you mention a coupl minut ago that you have anoth idea and that is that mayb you need to eat healthier
331 c: can you tell me a littl bit about what that mean to you ? like the idea of eat healthi what would that look like ?
112 t: eat healthi mean to me that i need to stay on like diet like eat celeri and not to eat junk food and just eat rice stuff
311 c: okay so when you think about eat healthier you think about eat thing like salad that are healthier food but you also think on the other side of get rid of some unhealthi food so you see that there are two part to chang eat
343 c: what other what other thought do you have ?
117 t: none
327 c: none okay
331 c: well tell me a littl bit about if you would how would it be how would life be differ for you if you lost some weight ?
113 t: it would be great
112 t: i'd be abl to do stuff like i would be abl to do stuff like i would be abl to do stuff like join activ and do a lot of stuff mm-hmm help peopl and do stuff for myself that it
311 c: okay so in your mind if if your weight chang then you'd be abl to do more thing that you could enjoy and you would also be abl to help some other peopl
309 c: those sound like pretti good goal
344 c: is it what what keep you from do that right now ?
329 c: i'm tri to understand how how it differ right now
120 t: keep me from-can you repeat that ?
311 c: sure yep so a minut ago you said if you lost weight then you'd be abl to do other thing that you enjoy and you'd be abl to help other peopl
331 c: and so how would that be differ from right now ? like right now are you abl to do thing that you enjoy and are you abl to help other peopl ?
117 t: no
327 c: no
112 t: becaus of my weight and i won't be abl to to do stuff sometim
329 c: okay but help me understand that a littl bit more
344 c: is it is it hard for you ? in what way ?
110 t: it not realli hard for me it not realli hard for me i just don't just don't like to i just don't like to ã¢â‚¬â¦ i don't know i'm like inaud
326 c: it hard to put into word so right now you were start to explain
324 c: right now it not so much that it hard for you it almost sound like you'r like you feel uncomfort
306 c: would that be right or is that not quit what it is ?
117 t: i don't know
306 c: are you feel a littl bit nervous right now ?
307 c: yeah ? i'm sorri if there someth that i'm do that make you nervous
306 c: no ?
110 t: i'm kind of shi
326 c: oh you'r shi
329 c: i use to be realli shi too
302 c: well if it make you to feel-if it help you to feel more comfort there are no right or wrong answer the reason that we'r talk today is for me to just help you think through some of these thing becaus it can be difficult to think through them and so i have some experi think through what chang peopl want to make and so some of the question that i'm ask you are not for me to judg what you'r say or anyth it for it to help you start organ your thought in a way that you can say "oh okay so if i need to eat healthier or if i feel like i want to do some exercises" eventu i want to help you get to a plan for how you can do that okay ? and so if you just say what come to mind that fine it doesn't have to be a great answer it doesn't have to be a long one it whatev in your own head is fine okay ?
328 c: okay so so let see so a moment ago we were talk about what make it tough for you to do some of the thing you'd realli like to do right now and you were say that it it not that it difficult and it not that it uncomfort
116 t: my my i would like to play basketbal but i can't play basketbal becaus i'm not a veri good fast runner that whi i'm not good that whi i want to lose weight becaus i want to be abl to run fast and stay healthi mm-hmm be abl to do what i'm suppos to do and that it
311 c: okay so so if you lost weight then what you'r say is that you'd be abl to to be more skill in some of the area you want to be skill in like you could run faster which mean that you'd be abl to enjoy play basketbal more
306 c: right ? okay
311 c: and you said you'd do some of the other thing that you'd like to do
112 t: cheerlead mm-hmm and soccer mm-hmm and that that it
309 c: okay so earlier you said that some of these wonder idea that you have the the cheerlead and soccer now that you'v mention and basketbal those are thing that you'd like to do you haven't start do them yet
117 t: mm-hmm
333 c: what do you think it would take for you to be abl to get to the point where you'r abl to do those thing ?
112 t: get get on the right shape get on the right track okay and just stay focus not worri about noth els just on yourself that it
305 c: okay so it sound like you want to get a plan in your head and find a way to stick to it so that you can get from right now today to in the futur feel like "hey i'v done the thing i want to do i'v made it to the point where i can comfort play basketbal and do cheerleading" and in a way it seem like you'v got this idea that it like a step by step process yeah yeah okay so if you had to think about that step by step process what do you think the first step might be ?
112 t: the first step might be is just to eat healthi and like salad drink milk and inaud kind of stuff stop go out to fast food restaur and inaud a healthi restaur like i don't know a healthi restaur that it
306 c: so i hear you say that one of the veri first thing that you need to do is chang your eat habit right ?
117 t: yes
308 c: and again you'v got realli great idea i have to tell you you seem to know a number of thing that it would take
328 c: like you mention eat salad and drink milk like you mention befor you had said the junk food and now you also mention less go to fast food restaur and if you'r go to go to a restaur go to one that has healthi food choic
306 c: right ?
308 c: those are awesom idea
331 c: what do you think it might take to be abl to do those thing ?
112 t: just start do it and keep do it and do it mm-hmm and then you'll get use to it
310 c: mm-hmm well some of those thing you it sound like you might need some help with becaus you'r a kid and you'r not the one that make some of the choic sometim you might need some help from somebodi
117 t: yeah
331 c: who would you need help from ?
112 t: my mom and probabl my sister and my nephew
309 c: okay wow you'v got a bunch of peopl that could help you your mom and your sister and nephew
331 c: what do you think they could do for you ?
112 t: tell me to tell me to keep do the right thing and stop do the wrong thing okay and you will get better at it as long as you keep tri
311 c: mm-hmm so you'd like to hear from them some encourag word some support say inaud you can do this
306 c: is that the kind of thing you'r think ? yeah
308 c: so right now you have two realli great idea on the tabl
328 c: you'v mention exercis or some activ as one way of lose of lose weight you'v also mention chang to your eat habit as a first step
305 c: so if you and i are go to use our time to help you come up with some idea on what what you could do when you leav today which of those would you realli like to focus on ?
106 t: eat right and start activ outsid like walk and play okay and that it
309 c: wow
333 c: so you have some idea which you could start use you could start do these when ?
112 t: now
308 c: now that would be great
305 c: what made you say that ?
117 t: i don't know
302 c: you don't know sometim peopl get to a point where they'r think hey wait a minut i don't have to wait to do this stuff i could just play outsid today
306 c: is that kind of what happen with you ?
308 c: yeah so at this point you have some realli great idea
311 c: you'v you'v pick a coupl of thing that you feel like you could do right now
302 c: if i want to help you come up with a plan that you could leav with today and start do we could do that a coupl differ way
305 c: is that someth that you'r interest in do is come up with a plan ?
117 t: i guess
324 c: yeah you sound like you'r kind of a littl on the fenc about that one
343 c: what do you think that what did you think when i said come up with a plan ? what did that make you think about ?
119 t: i don't think about that we had i had to like make come up with a plan where i was where i want to play inaud or play or just i mean eat right or that come up with a plan and ã¢â‚¬â¦
309 c: i think you'r on the right track
302 c: so part of what we'v alreadi done is we'v alreadi talk through most of a plan i don't know if you were realiz that we were do that but we'v alreadi talk through almost an entir plan and so some peopl decid that when they'r readi to make a chang now like you said they talk about it and they just put some idea in their head so that they can say okay now i know when i leav here today here what i'm go to do first and here the kind of help i need other peopl say you know that that realli a great idea and i'd like to write it down so that in case i forget what to do or i get off track i can just look at it again and get back on track again
305 c: which do you think would work better for you ? think and talk about it or write it down ?
112 t: think and talk about it
302 c: okay alright so so if we were go to come up with a plan then the first step would be to pick your goal which you'v done alreadi
331 c: do you rememb what you pick ? what did you pick ?
112 t: basketbal cheerlead soccer
305 c: okay so now those are thing that you would like to be abl to do right ? so if your plan is to get to the point where you can do those what would you do ? what would be the first step that you take ?
111 t: basketbal and i got to i have to keep i have to  i don't know
307 c: okay did you lose your train of thought a littl bit ? that okay that happen to everybodi sometim
305 c: but you have this idea that you keep come back to this basketbal that you realli it sound like it a veri import thing for you
306 c: would it be okay if i have a plan in here that we could look at to kind of guid our idea would it be okay if i take it out for us to use as a guidelin ?
302 c: okay let see so so this is kind of one way to think about rememb i said i was go to help you think about what you'd like to do and how you might be abl to do it ? you'v alreadi said that your plan is to be abl to play basketbal right ?
331 c: whi do you want to do that ?
112 t: becaus it my favorit sport and my uncl use to be a basketbal player and that whi inaud
309 c: okay alright so you have some pretti big aspir
311 c: you'd like to realli meet some strong goal becaus you have somebodi in your famili who was a basketbal player and it your favorit sport you would like to play too
328 c: so i'm go to shift gear for a moment here and think about you said earlier that you kind of knew the first step that you need to take in order to becom a basketbal player or to join a team would be to start eat healthier but you also said there was anoth step and that is that you could start do some physic activ now like play outsid and go for walk right ?
305 c: so what if we shift our think a littl bit and think about if your plan is to do one or both of those thing which would you like to take as your first step ?
106 t: walk
313 c: walk okay
331 c: so if if so if my plan is to start walk then we look at this again and say whi is that import to you ? like whi would it be import for you to start walk ? what would that ultim lead to ?
112 t: so i can so i can get use to it and keep and keep do it mm-hmm and ã¢â‚¬â¦
309 c: yep i think you'r right on right on target
311 c: so you can get use to it and keep do it
331 c: and if you did that what do you think that could lead to a littl down the road ?
119 t: i might my my goal
311 c: yeah you want to play 
112 t: basketbal
311 c: basketbal so that might be a first step okay so so if your plan is to start walk and you want to do that becaus you could get use to it yes
333 c: and eventu it would help you to play basketbal okay so well let think about how often you would need to walk
119 t: i inaud 40 or 50%
327 c: okay when you when you say 40% or 50%
106 t: i mean i'm talk about walk like everi day or most of the day
329 c: oh okay i understand
333 c: so if you did 40% or 50% how mani day in a week would you think that would be ?
106 t: six i think six a week and i would probabl would lose some weight and thenã¢â‚¬â¦
310 c: so let see how about as far as like a good start point ? do you think that that where you could start out or would you have to start out a littl bit slower than that ? mean a littl bit less than that
106 t: start out start out a littl bit closer
333 c: okay so let see so if there are seven day in a week and do you think about dure the first coupl week how mani day do you think you would want to walk to start out with ?
305 c: and rememb this is just a first step and you can chang this later as you get better and better
106 t: it would probabl be like ten or 11 week
311 c: okay so you see i see that you'r think kind of in the long term like i see that there are some chang that i need to make today but you also see the benefit of do it for a long time
308 c: which is great that that where you'r think
333 c: becaus that will prepar you for the differ thing that you'll need to okay good think okay so what about today ? what would your plan be for today as far as walk goe ?
120 t: enjoy my birthday ? and have fun mm-hmm go out mm-hmm and come back home okay that it
312 c: so it sound to me as though today is probabl not the day that you'r go to start walk becaus you have a birthday to celebr so
306 c: what about tomorrow ?
117 t: hmm yes yeah
305 c: yeah you said that pretti easili like oh yes tomorrow becaus it which which make me think that this realli is an import thing for you that you do want to start pretti soon
333 c: okay so what your plan then for tomorrow ?
106 t: get up earli mm-hmm and go out for a walk okay with my brother okay and come back and go outsid again and play with my friend or ride a bike
308 c: wow you have a lot of good idea
328 c: those are all pretti activ go for a walk with your brother and play outsid and ride your bike so i guess if we think about that then realli your plan is a littl bit bigger than just walk it sound like your plan is to just get more exercis in general huh ? okay
306 c: do you mind if i write that down just so that i can becaus i would like to rememb too laugh okay
305 c: so your plan is to  and you had earlier said whi you want to start get more exercis right ? can you remind me whi that import to you ?
112 t: whi that import to me is to whi is that import to me to is to walk everi day most for 40% or 50% mm-hmm and that would be six day in a week and i would probabl lose some weight
330 c: mm-hmm
106 t: and come back home and then go back out mm-hmm ride my bike play with my friend and that it then do it the next day and the next day and the next day
308 c: alright wow you'v got a plan and it sound like onc you set it in motion you'll be do it everi day or almost everi day
310 c: which is a pretti pretti good thing to do i mean you don't have to do it everi singl day but i like your i like your idea
305 c: so and ultim what the reason that you'r do all this ? what do you want to get out of it ? you said earlier
112 t: so i can play basketbal
311 c: oh ! the big goal so you can play basketbal
306 c: alright so this doe that captur what you were think ? is there anyth els that you'd like to add to that ?
117 t: no
302 c: okay so sometim when peopl have a plan that they would like to do no matter how import it is to them sometim someth get in the way
344 c: what do you think could get in your way that would make it hard to do your walk the way that you plan to ?
109 t: my grandmoth
343 c: okay tell me a littl more about that
110 t: she like to walk mm-hmm she like to walk everi day and she elder and her doctor said she have to walk a lot and when i go walk my father have to go with us and me and my brother will walk a long way sometim and she get tire and we have to stop somewher and we have to go back home and we have to keep on do it and take care of inaud
326 c: i think i understand it seem that you'r a littl conflict becaus on one hand you'v got your grandma who go to be walk anyway but on the other hand sometim she not abl to keep go and you have stop or you have to just take her back home
119 t: yeah stop and stop
306 c: okay so what should i write for it ?
109 t: you can write that we have to be walk and have to take my grandmoth with us and her doctor said we have to that she has to walk and you take her you take her and we have to keep on stop then she'll get tire and then take her back home
306 c: okay doe that captur what you were say ?
117 t: yes
333 c: alright what do you think you could do if that happen ? like what
112 t: i have to get use to it okay and that anoth reason i need to keep play becaus she is alway go to be like that and that it
311 c: okay one solut that you just mention is that you'll just have to get use to it becaus she has some need and part of what you may have to do is understand those
333 c: is there anyth els that you could do that could make sure that this could happen even if you do have to go and you do have to stop ? is there anyth els that you could do to make sure you do your walk ? no ?
302 c: some peopl have told me befor becaus i'v work with a number of peopl who'v been kind of in your posit where there someth they realli want to do but they kind of have to do it in a way that other peopl can do it with them sometim what they decid to do is okay well you know my grandma need to walk and i'll go with her but later i'm go to go out with my brother and walk again
305 c: i mean is that someth that might work for you ?
117 t: that okay
306 c: and is there anyth els you'd like to put down ? no okay
328 c: inaud your brother so let see we talk about this part a littl bit earlier the first step that you could take and you'r not readi to do someth today becaus it your birthday but you did say
305 c: what did you say ? that you could start on it
106 t: tomorrow
305 c: okay what would you like for me to write down ?
106 t: i will get up in the morn mm-hmm me and my brother will get up in the morn tell our parent that we'r go to walk and we will walk to the famili dollar and back and come i'll come back home go outsid again play with my friend and run around
308 c: that a pretti specif plan i love it this seem like it detail you have a plan for get up and what time and where you'r go to go and what you'r go to do afterward are you alway this skill at do thing ?
328 c: sometim this seem like it work pretti pretti well for you so so now you mention earlier that you had a number of peopl that could help you you mention your mom and you mention your sister and your nephew
112 t: my mom
331 c: okay what do you think your mom could do to help you ?
112 t: tell me to stay on the right track and don't pay attent to nobodi and and just tri your best at whatev you'r tri to do
305 c: and that sound alright ? alright well now you have a specif plan and i know that your idea was just to talk about it and keep it in your head so if you don't want to take this with you you don't need to but if you'v chang your mind and you would like to i can stick it in this folder which you'r go to get when you leav
119 t: take it
301 c: okay it alreadi written out laugh so at this time in a moment i'm go to have you switch place with your mom and i'm go to talk with her for a littl bit about some of the same thing that you and i talk about i don't have to share this plan with her this could be someth that you share in a way that you decid to so i would like to know what you would like me to do becaus after i meet with your mom you'll come back in and i'll meet with both of you togeth
305 c: would you like to have me share your plan or some part of it or just kind of talk about it general ? would you prefer to share it when you come back in with your mom today ? or just kind of talk about it general ?
119 t: you share the plan
301 c: okay would it be okay if i show it to her or do you just want me to talk about it ?
119 t: you can show her
306 c: okay well alright so befor i take you in the other room to meet with the research assist and to do the tast test are there ani question that you have ?
117 t: no
308 c: okay so you did a super good job of come up with a detail plan so this will be veri help to you when you start to use it
301 c: so i'm go to stick this in here and let me take you back out and then i'll see you again in a few minut with your mom okay ?
