301 c: just now befor we get start we want to just take a minut to let you know that this is the part of our session where we turn the camera ?
305 c: on and this might be a littl bit differ from the kind of meet you'v probabl had with doctor when they come and tell you what to do and you know give you some order or kind of boss you around a littl bit that not what i'm here today so our meet is realli for you and i to talk through some idea for weight manag and for me to help you come up with some idea on what if anyth you'd like to do so i'm here to support and help you laugh okay caus we find that that just doesn't realli work you know we tell peopl what to do when we send them out and it just not that help and so laugh
332 c: have you had that experi befor ? yeah what do you think of that ?
120 t: it weird it like i kind of keep up with what i have to do
305 c: yeah it might be better if it come from yourself becaus you'r the expert in your own life and so you have a better sens of what you can and can't do ?
301 c: so you and i will spend about 20 minut togeth and then i'll meet with your mom for about 20 minut and then the three of us will come back togeth for about that long 15 to 20 minut okay ?
343 c: so how about if we start with just talk about what you think about your weight ? would that be good ?
117 t: yeah
343 c: okay so what do you think ?
111 t: i don't know i think i could lose some weight i should that i should but i don't know
325 c: but you don't know
110 t: i haven't realli though about it
346 c: okay well so have you talk to anybodi els about that idea of whether or not you should ?
117 t: hmm not realli
311 c: no ? okay
346 c: well so if you don't mind me ask what brought you guy in today ?
112 t: we had gotten a letter in the mail about the 0:01:59 thing and we thought it would be a good idea
331 c: okay so whi did you think it was a good idea ?
112 t: i think i could be healthier than i am now
308 c: okay well that you know certain a realli great thought to think you know like in term of health ?
302 c: you know becaus when peopl think about whether or not they want to lose weight that general one of the reason they think about is whether they'r healthi or not
305 c: so what are your thought about you said you feel like you could be healthier but you'r not realli sure ?
346 c: okay in what area do you think you could be healthier ?
103 t: like i eat a lot of junk food sometim and like a lot of greasi food fri food and stuff
311 c: okay so you kind of have a sens that mayb there are some thing you could do differ as far as eat goe okay
346 c: and has that caus you ani problem so far or no ?
117 t: no not realli
325 c: okay alright so you'r kind of at a point it sound like where you think well you know mayb i could be a littl bit healthier and that might involv lose weight and it might involv chang some thing about the way i eat but it might not ?
346 c: is that fair to say ?
117 t: someth like that
331 c: okay what part did i miss ?
112 t: i'm tri to say that i might could change- i mean i can chang thing i just may need some help befor i realli
307 c: oh i gotcha yeah it hard to do it by yourself huh ?
302 c: well would it be help if you look in a chart to see where your weight is compar to other peopl your age ? okay so you know that they weigh you in the other room befor you came in here and they calcul out where you fall compar to other young ladi your age and let see
306 c: have you ever seen one of these growth chart befor ?
117 t: mm-hmm
302 c: okay so just to kind of remind you of how they work the green area is the area for averag weight so it would be healthi weight this area is overweight this is underweight and this red area is obes okay ?
306 c: so if you had to guess where would you say that your weight fall ?
119 t: somewher in here
305 c: so how doe that fit with what you were think ?
119 t: it realli more than i thought
310 c: yeah it differ like you you didn't guess that caus you thought that you were overweight but not obes and this is pretti high up there on the obes rang huh ?
306 c: do you have question about what that mean or ?
101 t: not that i know of
331 c: 05:06 answer ? okay well how doe that chang the way you think about whether or not you could lose weight or should ?
117 t: i don't know
305 c: doe this realli mean anyth to you at all as far as
117 t: mm-hmm
329 c: i don't know how much background knowledg you have so it hard for me to guess
111 t: it doe
305 c: okay so as you'r look at this what are your thought about what should happen next ?
112 t: i could lose weight and i should chang like 0:05:42 and stuff
301 c: okay so well let me put this away so that we can talk about some of your other idea that you had ?
331 c: so if you'r kind of think about wow you know i see that i was higher up on that scale than i thought i was and you know mayb that doe mean that i need to make some chang you know how import is that to you ?
113 t: it veri import it veri import it is becaus that like if it like i'm obes that not veri good and i should should 0:06:27 like a lot of kid my age that are healthi and not in that rang
305 c: mm-hmm yeah so it seem like you'v got some new inform and it kind of you'r wonder how that fit togeth with what you need me for ?
331 c: well so so i guess you know as you'r say that it veri import to you if you were to rate that on a scale of from one not veri import at all to ten like the most import thing in your life right this minut where would you put yourself as far as import of manag your weight ?
113 t: between like an eight and a nine
300 c: oh wow that pretti high up there
325 c: i wouldn't have guess that becaus when you first start talk i was think that probabl you would have pick a lower number
331 c: what made you pick an eight or a nine and not like a seven ?
112 t: becaus well it doe make thing like sort of harder for me becaus of my weight and i think 0:07:28 07:30
331 c: okay so what kind of thing
305 c: do you mind me ask ?
331 c: what what thing that are harder for you
305 c: if you don't mind me ask ?
112 t: like i play volleybal when i was in fifth grade and then like when i went to sixth grade like i couldn't do like a lot of stuff that i did earlier and stuff like when i do stuff like walk around not walk but like move a lot and run and stuff like that i can't like consist go on
311 c: oh okay so you have some limit that that you think are relat to weight okay
305 c: well what other thought do you have about 0:08:07 you know that this is kind of some new inform that you got today and laugh
310 c: you know our focus is on weight so mayb we could talk a littl bit about how that fit for you and where you might go from here
120 t: what your question ? could you just repeat the question ?
305 c: yep yep i'm just kind of wonder how it fit for you this new inform that you got with your idea on what you might do that fair enough so like i said earlier i mean this is this is your show i'm here to help you come up with idea for what you may or may not want to do and if there are some chang you would like to make i can help you think through those so you know if you think about what you might want to do start today or tomorrow even do you want to make ani chang ? okay so what kind of chang do you think you would want to make ?
112 t: like exercis and make healthier choic and stuff
311 c: okay so exercis more when you say healthier choic you mention earlier
112 t: like food and stuff
301 c: okay alright you mention that earlier so i thought that what you were talk about i figur i'd better doubl check so
305 c: well you know given that you and i have a few minut to talk through some of those we'r probabl not go to be abl to make a lot of plan but i can help get you start so if you would like to i can help you make a plan to chang either someth about eat or someth about activ do you have a prefer ? no ? okay well you know mayb one way to think about it is just to think which one do you think would benefit you the most ? mean if you made a chang to the way that you ate or a chang to the way that you exercis or have other kind of activ which one do you think would be most help to you ?
117 t: i don't know 0:10:12
310 c: okay alright and you'v been activ befor so mayb that would be someth you might enjoy get back into ?
348 c: are you activ right now ?
302 c: no ? okay so i have a coupl thing in here i can show you if that would help to give you some idea on what you might do okay we have these littl handout and you'r go to get all of these but we'r just go to look at a coupl of them for now let see so when peopl want to think about you know and make plan for the way that they are activ here are a coupl thing that they usual think about one is keep track of what you do becaus you you know like anybodi would probabl have a tough time rememb everi day like what specif you did and for how long you did it and like if you watch tv or play on the comput or anyth like that how long did you do that ? caus that time that you'r not activ you know ? so one way to keep track of your activ is to use a log like this one or you could make your own where like each day of the week you write down what kind of exercis you did or activ you had how long and whether it was easi moder mean medium or vigor activ so like softbal when you play and you like ran the base and you ran you know from the outfield to the infield and that that would be like vigor activ if you did that for about 20 to 30 minut or so or longer easi activ would be kind of like like if you walk around the block and mayb you walk kind of fast but it that would be easi activ and then moder activ might be someth like jog in place or run slowli or walk quick would be anoth exampl and then some peopl find it help to keep track of how long they do thing that involv like sit down and not be activ okay anoth option is to just set a goal for yourself to say okay you know what ? three day a week i'm go to work up to the point where i'm do 60 minut each of those day of high intens activ and aerob activ is this kind of stuff like run or kickbox danc that kind of thing and then on top of it you know stretch and strengthen would be in addit to that if you want to do that okay ?
305 c: do either of these idea appeal to you ? do you like the idea of do either one of those ?
112 t: that one
311 c: that one ? okay ?
305 c: what can you pictur yourself do ?
112 t: i have a wii fit game at home so i could probabl do that
309 c: yeah okay and it keep realli good track of what you do too doesn't it ?
117 t: mm-hmm
301 c: yeah okay well let me put this one away and we can use that one to kind of come up with some idea for you ?
305 c: now would you be interest in make a plan for how you'r go to go about do make sure that you do this each day or three day a week ?
301 c: okay so let see let me show you the other paper that we have
302 c: this paper right here a lot of peopl find it help to kind of keep their thought organ and have a plan that they can turn to whenev they forget or want to remind themselv of what they'r do and so we could either talk through this or we could write it down whatev would be best for you but a lot of peopl say okay you know "i'm go to make my plan for myself and mayb your plan would be i'm go to exercis three day a week and work up to 60 minutes" you might have a differ idea in mind that you want to start with we'd also tri to figur out whi that import to you in other word what is your motiv for want to do that ? what would you get out of it ? okay and then we would spend a littl bit of time talk about what could get in your way and stop you from reach your goal and what to do about that so that you can reach your goal and we can also talk about what to do when you leav here today and who could help you
305 c: doe that sound like a reason idea ? okay so what are your thought ? like if you want to make a plan or a goal for yourself to increas your exercis what would you say that you would want to work up to ?
120 t: me-wis ?
302 c: you could pick a time you could pick like how mani day of the week you could pick the kind of exercis anyth that you feel like would be a good goal for yourself that would help with weight loss
106 t: probabl everi day like 15 minut a day probabl
313 c: okay so you see yourself as do it more often but for less time ?
308 c: and so that this is you know a start point and i think that a realli great start point especi given that you said that you you'r not activ right now that probabl a realli good place to start
333 c: would you see yourself work up to a point where you could work a littl bit longer than 15 minut ?
117 t: mm-hmm
308 c: okay alrighti that good that you kind of know where you should start okay ?
305 c: okay do you want to write that down as part of your plan ? and whi would it be import to you to start exercis everi day for 15 minut ?
112 t: becaus i don't want to put too much on myself at one time i want to like start slowli
305 c: mm-hmm yep so one thing is you want to start where you know you can be success right ? and whi do you even want to do it at all ? like what your real motiv that push you even to do anyth ? okay alright well so i mean go back to earlier you mention that you felt like it might be healthier for you and so that might be one motiv i don't know if that someth you think about all the time or not okay and if it not then don't write it down laugh so ani other thing that you feel like realli are motiv you right now ?
117 t: not realli
308 c: okay alrighti so well you had a realli nice though ?
305 c: do you want to write down your what you have ?
331 c: so if you think for a minut befor we move on how confid do you feel right now that you can realli do the 15 minut a day everi day ?
113 t: veri confid
331 c: okay so if we go back to our scale of like one not confid and ten most confid you'v ever felt where would you put yourself ?
112 t: probabl about a seven
331 c: okay alright so whi a seven and not a six ?
106 t: becaus i could plan my schedul around 0:17:55 school from like 7:30 to 4:45 and then i get home and i do homework then 0:18:04 8:30
313 c: okay so despit have a realli full schedul you still feel pretti i mean seven is pretti high so you still feel pretti confid that you'r go to be abl to work it in there somewher huh ? okay ?
344 c: okay great so if you think for a minut about thing that could possibl get in your way and make it so that you don't do your exercis the way you plan what do you think might stop you ?
117 t: i don't know
359 c: do you ever think about like do peopl call you or do you have like other thing that you have to go do or mayb you just think to yourself oh i know i was go to but i just don't feel like it ?
110 t: sometim
329 c: i'm sorri i didn't quit hear you
110 t: sometim when i feel like do stuff 0:18:52
326 c: so sometim you just don't feel like get start
305 c: what if you were mayb write that down as a thing that might get in your way ? or might not
117 t: okay
307 c: i think a lot of peopl think that way sometim it hard to alway keep go
117 t: mm-hmm
333 c: what do you think you might do if you have that thought ?
106 t: mmm tri to find the strength to like actual not be lazi
331 c: okay where do you usual find your strength when you want to do someth that is hard for you ?
106 t: i just make myself do it
346 c: okay do you are there thing that you say to yourself or ?
117 t: hmm not realli
302 c: yeah some peopl find it help to ask anoth person to like check up on them or mayb they write note to themselv to kind of motiv like you know rememb that you just are just go to do it or you know like the nike commerci that say just do it ? some peopl stick like littl post it note around the hous laugh so
333 c: what what would happen if you tri to talk yourself into just go and do your 15 minut and you realli felt like you couldn't ? what would you do then ?
115 t: i don't know i'd probabl just do it anyway or not do it at all 0:20:33
307 c: yeah it would be hard to know ?
325 c: you might end up do it or you might not
346 c: yeah do you think that mayb keep track of it in some way would help you to stay motiv ?
302 c: okay so that might be one thing you might think of as a possibl solut like if it becom a problem then you could keep track
331 c: what els like if you have a realli hard time ? what would be like would there be anybodi you could ask to help you ?
120 t: what do you mean like a hard time ?
330 c: a realli hard time like make yourself just do it
112 t: mmm i don't think i would have a hard time do it 0:21:14
302 c: okay the reason that i'm say so much about this is becaus a lot of peopl do feel like they can just go ahead and do thing that they said like they set a goal for themselv and they say you know what ? if i don't feel like do it i'm just go to do it anyway and that may be true most of the time but everi onc in a while you might run into a time when it realli hard to get past that and do it anyway and so that what i'm tri to help you with right now is a plan for what if you have one of those day where laugh where it is hard you know  ?
305 c: so if you don't feel like there anyth that you can realli do or will need to do then that fine so what do you think the first step will be when you leav here today to get start on your plan ?
106 t: i don't know get rid of negat energi 0:22:18
308 c: wow that pretti sophist so get rid of some negat energi you said ?
333 c: how would you go about do that ?
115 t: i don't know i haven't thought about that part i haven't thought about that part yet
305 c: okay would it be help to you to talk through it ?
301 c: so that might be the one thing then to that you could write down for your first step is to get rid of the negat energi and then you have some time to think about what the best way to do that is paus so what about that last piec ?
302 c: that kind of an idea of you know peopl have an easier time be success when they have other peopl help them in some way or when they can at least turn to anoth person when they need help
346 c: do you have anybodi in your life that you can pictur help you to stick to the goal and make sure you make it everi day ?
112 t: my mom
331 c: okay so what could your mom do to help you ?
112 t: if she will to she could do stuff with me
305 c: okay so on that last line what you could write down is someth my mom could do that would help me would be to exercis with me or whatev it is that you'r think that she could do paus so now you have one step in a plan to help you and now that we'v talk through this you know you kind of have an idea of how to organ a plan if you want to come up with some other idea like when you get to the point where 15 minut is easi and you want to bump it up or make some other chang that would be like the next higher level of do activ you also mention work on chang eat so if you want to make a differ plan for that you have an idea of how to do it now ?
328 c: so now you have one step in a plan to help you and now that we'v talk through this you know you kind of have an idea of how to organ a plan if you want to come up with some other idea like when you get to the point where 15 minut is easi and you want to bump it up or make some other chang that would be like the next higher level of do activ you also mention work on chang eat so if you want to make a differ plan for that you have an idea of how to do it now so what you came up with was you said that you were go to exercis everi day for 15 minut and that that was import to you becaus i think you said what did you say ? we will be healthier alright you felt like one thing that might get in your way is is get lazi or just you know have a hard time get start but at this point you don't realli feel like it go to be hard to overcom that becaus you feel like you'v had success in the past with just make yourself do it right ? and then let see for the first step was to get rid of some negat
306 c: energi and then you felt like your mom could realli help out by exercis with you is there anyth that you want to add or ani question i can answer for you ?
117 t: no
308 c: okay so you have a nice plan i mean it look like this is someth that you can be success with right away
301 c: at this point what i'm go to do is i'm go to take you out in the other room and i'm go to talk with your mom for a littl bit and then we'll bring you back in how would you like to share this plan with your mom ? we could do that in a coupl way either you can share it when we all come togeth or i can share it with her and then we can talk it over when we all come togeth
119 t: you can show it to her
301 c: okay do you mind if i actual show her the paper ?
119 t: you can
301 c: okay that sound good so when we all come back togeth one of the question i'll ask you is what do you realli want to do ? what your first step ? and so i'll give you your plan to look at and you can talk it over with your mom some and she'll have a plan also to talk over with you okay ? and then you guy will be all done so alright let me put all this stuff back in here and i'll collect it up for your mom when she come in can i stick your plan in there ?
117 t: mm-hmm
308 c: okay thank you you have such nice handwrit too it easi to read laugh
301 c: so let me take you out into the other room and i'll get your mom real quick our research assist might have someth to do with you for a coupl minut you can come right in here pleas laugh
