301 c: miss ester all right so you made it here and you had a chanc to answer a lot of questionnair and write down all that kind of stuff
309 c: so thank for take care of all those thing
117 t: you'r welcom
343 c: and now kind of you know how do you feel about your weight ?
113 t: bad becaus like i can't fit into the pretti cloth that i want and that i can't get into bath suit that i like becaus of my weight and i feel like a littl bit embarrass
307 c: so it tough sometim to think about your weight
311 c: and you'd like to lose some weight so you could fit into cuter cuter cloth
112 t: yeah i want to be skinni
311 c: so you have some idea in your mind on what you'd like to look like and it you know it pretti import to you to to get your size down a bit
112 t: yeah like i'm in high school i don't want nobodi to teas me becaus like 0:03:15 you know
307 c: yeah that might hurt
311 c: you'r start a new school and you want it to go well well what are some way that you'v heard that you know peopl go about lose some weight ?
343 c: well what are some way that you'v heard that you know peopl go about lose some weight ?
116 t: like eat healthi they go to the gym and they like i watch this commerci they like eat these smoothi but my mom won't get them all the time it like to help you control your hunger like like if you were hungri they wouldn't make you that hungri a lot it would make you want to eat less and then my mom said she was go to bring me here to talk about what some way to lose a lot of weight
311 c: okay so you guy actual have talk about it a littl bit at home lose weight and you'r kind of familiar with some of the thing that peopl do in term of chang the way that they'r eat and and get more exercis to to lose weight
308 c: and you show up you came here kind of readi to to talk about your weight not everybodi come in with that kind of an attitud
305 c: so you know think about you know that you know that it take you know nutrit chang and some activ chang you know which one would you like to focus on in our time today ?
119 t: like like what you mean like talk about my weight ? like how to lose ?
329 c: yeah so i wasn't realli clear with my question
305 c: and i guess yeah like how to how to ?
309 c: becaus you'r right in that it take nutrit and activ some chang there
302 c: and sometim peopl like to focus on nutrit or sometim they like to focus on exercis or sometim they focus on both
305 c: what would you like to do ?
112 t: i would like to focus on on nutrit and like exercis becaus like i mean it take like for me to lose some pound
311 c: so you'r interest in both nutrit and activ and you know how long it would take to see some result from do chang ?
117 t: mm-hmm yeah
302 c: well i have some inform on the amount of time you want to talk more about that ? or would you like to go more into like you know differ way you can make eat chang mayb or exercis idea ?
112 t: exercis idea
346 c: go for the exercis ?
117 t: mm-hmm
333 c: alright so if we want to kind of look at exercis you know what kind of thing would you see yourself do if you decid to start exercis on a regular basi ?
113 t: i would like start walk and then like ride my bike is that exercis i would like start do some sit up and then like get i know some my dad got some like arm thing so you can do like the inaud i would start do that and then i would like jog go to the park and like jog five mile
308 c: so alreadi you have like these great idea for how you can get more activ and get more exercis in your day a lot of them actual wow !
311 c: and you know you'r alreadi think like okay like i have a bike i can ride it i got you know differ arm thing you can have that your daddi has and and other thing like that
309 c: yeah hey ! cool you'r make my job easi here alright
302 c: so you know would it be help you know for you because-let me start over i guess sometim when peopl meet with me they'll say you know this is how mani day of the week that i might like to do it mayb i might like to do like one day a week mayb i might like to do exercis three day a week or someth like that for a certain amount of time and we we talk a littl bit more about that
305 c: would that be help for you ?
118 t: no inaud
305 c: you'r not realli sure and i mean mayb it good that you'r be honest becaus that stuff doesn't work for everybodi and this is realli about what will work for you yeah so put it out there on kind of a schedul might not be veri help for you so that not realli your thing so what would be help to get you to you know think about do more exercis or do more exercis dure the week ?
113 t: start eat healthi like like stop eat like after late like past nine and like start eat fruit and grape orang appl and just start do some sit up at night sometim
311 c: so you'r kind of realli go with some of the nutrit stuff too so you'r think exercis and and way to eat healthier for your weight
117 t: yeah
305 c: alright well which one would you want to focus on ?
112 t: nutrit
311 c: yeah so kind of leav leav the activ stuff and talk more about the food stuff alright well if you were go to eat healthier and you'r come up with idea it sound like for you know fruit and not snack as late at night and kind of watch your snack
333 c: you know what other idea do you have ?
106 t: that pretti much it and like sometim i get hungri at night and i'm tri to stop myself from go to the kitchen like and get me like a littl like junk food now that i'v been tri to like eat grape like at night if i'm hungri and like i get my feel at night but i tri to control myself so i'm not go and eat junk food
313 c: alright so you'r alreadi make kind of the choic or notic when you'r feel hungri but it might just be like you'r bore or someth and so you'r you'r make healthier choic or tri to cut down on your snack
309 c: that great good
333 c: and you know when you get hungri at night you know how do you make other choic ? like how doe that go ?
119 t: when i like tri to control myself ?
330 c: mm-hmm
106 t: like i'll get me some grape and then i start eat that will calm me down a littl bit and then like i when i lay down then i still be feel hungri then i just get some more fruit and eat it and then i don't be hungri no more
309 c: that good
313 c: so when you do have the fruit you'll have enough that it doe make you feel full ?
117 t: yeah
308 c: alright great that pretti impress that you kind of found a plan that you'r go to eat healthier and then you put it into action and it work ?
302 c: well a lot of time when i meet with peopl they will kind of put togeth a littl bit of a plan on what they would like to work on and sometim it that they want to keep do what they'r alreadi do becaus it work well for them and sometim it that they want to work you know do a coupl more thin
305 c: t: so you know what would you like to kind of plan on for your weight ?
119 t: like which like which you mean like how to control it or ?
329 c: yeah i'm not be veri good at ask the question today inaud i'm sorri about that
333 c: so i think that would just be yeah like how how would you like to work on lose weight ?
106 t: like i would like get up and like tri to walk around a littl bit ride my bike and for breakfast start eat like cereal and-becaus i be skip meal well i don't be eat the cereal and i be skip meal and like just wake up and eat cereal then like later on eat some more fruit drink some healthi smoothi shake
308 c: so you have so mani idea so mani idea you'r just realli like full of like okay you know this is how you know so mani thing that peopl do when they'r realli tri to to lose weight
302 c: and you know when i when i sometim you know peopl will find that pick just one small thing to work on and start kind of that small is help for them to realli work on stick to it
305 c: how would someth like that work for you ? just pick one small thing to focus on
117 t: about not for sure
325 c: so you have so mani idea you'r just not realli sure which one you want to start with
115 t: yeah i got like so these idea in my head it too hard to focus on one
305 c: hmm well if you know if you were to to think about which one you want to focus on would it be more a nutrit or more an activ thing ?
112 t: nutrit
328 c: nutrit kind of alway go back to that nutrit one for for thing alright alright inaud let see so some of the thing that you mention for nutrit would be to you know work on that the healthi snack at night time anoth one you mention was breakfast and you also mention you know kind of have fruit
17 t: : yeah
331 c: what els ?
117 t: i think that it
329 c: yeah so i kind of i got i think i got the main one that you said
308 c: the main realli you know good good one for weight loss
305 c: so if you were go to pick one of those to focus on which one would you think you'd want to do ?
106 t: i think i would focus on nutrit like tri to help myself like stop eat junk food and tri to work on like eat fruit and by the time like i go to school then i'd like lose a littl bit of pound and yeah
313 c: yeah you'r realli link that whole idea of cut back on what you'r eat now and then over time you'll see some chang in your weight that realli what you'r go for you want to lose some weight befor school start
308 c: and realli smart that you'r not say like "i'm just go to cut back and i'm not go to eat" and you know becaus you know you'r not kind of think with the unhealthi way you'r think the healthi way "and i'll i'll have fruit instead you know i'll still give my bodi the healthi energi it need but i'll put fruit in there" again you got you got some smart stuff in here alright ?
331 c: alright so if you were go to have fruit instead of a snack you know other other food like chip or cooki or anyth like that whi would you do someth like that ? like what would be the most import reason to realli stick with have the fruit ?
120 t: i'm sorri can you repeat the question ?
331 c: mm-hmm yeah if you were go to have fruit instead of anoth snack what would be the reason to do that ? like whi would you want to do that ? you know if you walk into the kitchen and there are some chip and some cooki on the counter and then there some fruit what kind of fruit ?
112 t: like grape
311 c: grape
112 t: orang and appl
331 c: mm-hmm yeah the grape and orang and appl are sit there what whi would you pick
119 t: the fruit ?
330 c: yeah
113 t: becaus like if i keep eat more junk food it just go to keep on just ad more pound to my bodi weight and then if i eat fruit and i start walk ride my bike and exercis and like in septemb i'm go to like might see some chang about my stomach like it go down if i just keep eat more junk food just go to be make me bigger and bigger and then that not healthi it go to be make me tire a lot and don't make me want to do no sport if i keep eat the junk food
311 c: okay alright so the junk food kind of keep you grow weight that you don't want it make you tire and the fruit realli get you toward your goal of be healthier and more energi to do the bike ride and get you readi for school in septemb ?
309 c: okay good
332 c: wow so so then you'r kind of sit there look at the stuff and even though in your head you'r say "i realli want to have some fruit" what are some thing that might might happen that would have you choos the junk food instead like the cooki or the chip ? what could happen ?
106 t: like the like if i would choos that like unless that we don't like have enough food becaus usual i go in there and like see what do we have ? watermelon and fruit and all that stuff but if we don't have it then like i eat like one junk food and then i stop for a minut and like some chip and thing some chip and then i stop eat for the whole day becaus i realli like to eat fruit a lot
313 c: so in realiti i mean if you can't eat the fruit if it not there yeah so you'r work on if the fruit not there realli watch your portion with the other stuff
105 t: i would first i would tri not to grab the junk food but if i'm like realli realli hungri then i might like eat a bag of chip and then i'd just stop from there inaud
313 c: alright so you kind of have a plan just in case there junk food that you'll watch how much you'r eat of it yeah okay alright
333 c: and and so then if there no fruit well what are some way to make sure that there fruit in the hous ?
106 t: i would like tell my parent like to buy some from the groceri store or i would like tell them or i'd tell them that befor the fruit get ran out like if we onli have a littl bit left i'd say "oh we need more fruit" and they like buy some like right away if i
308 c: man you'r even go to give yourself a littl extra day just so that you don't realiz you don't have ani left and then you have to wait ?
106 t: yeah if i'm run out
309 c: wow
106 t: i'll tell them like i'm run out of fruit
313 c: 309you'r you you know feel pretti comfort ask your famili to you know have fruit in the hous
112 t: my famili know that i like fruit a lot
311 c: cool so they'r will to help out and get keep fruit in there they'r like sure go go grab some fruit yeah inaud so you'r realli say like one thing you could do is talk to your famili a littl bit more about it
301 c: so we actual will have some time to you know when your mom come back in at the end what do you think about talk to her about it then ?
106 t: like i want to tell her like "mom can you buy us like more fruit in the hous ? and like like more orang and grape for me to eat" and i would tell her i'm go to cut back on the junk food and like at night i'm go to tell her that at nighttim sometim i feel like i want to grab someth to eat but i'll just grab some grape instead and it don't make me hungri no more
313 c: alright so you feel pretti you know it easi to talk to her about that kind of a thing and you know you want to share with her your plan about the fruit and even you know have it as snack and especi at nighttim when you'r look for someth to eat
117 t: mm-hmm
301 c: well cool well alright well if that sound okay with you then we can definit you know talk to her about it when when we'r togeth and you know i also usual kind of share some inform like about this fruit when she she and i talk how would you like me to to do that ?
119 t: like i want to like tell her inaud and
301 c: alright so wait wait until you'r in here and you guy can talk about it becaus you know what you want to say okay yeah absolut alright cool well if it alright with you then i'll have you switch place with your mom
