309 c: so nice to meet you
360 c: c how do you pronounc your name sharlo ?
117 t: sharlo
309 c: oh it pretti
117 t: thank you
301 c: alright so they probabl explain to you that i'm go to meet with you and then with your grandma and then we'll come togeth and that we are be videotap so that we can learn more about you know the best way to talk to kid about weight and thing like that ?
306 c: so what question do you have about the videotap or what we'r go to do today ?
117 t: none
305 c: okay okay well basic you know this might be a littl differ than other convers you might have had around weight caus i'm not realli here to tell you what to do or how to do it or what diet to go on i realli want to find out your perspect and what if anyth you'r interest in chang and that realli you know what we want to do here caus we found that you know tell peopl to do thing doesn't realli make a differ you have to figur out what it is you want ?
306 c: so what do you think of that approach ?
112 t: i like that approach ask instead of just say "you should do this" or "you should do that" it make me feel better if you would suggest thing that i can do that i like to do instead of just say "oh you should do this" or "you go do that" or "eat this or
311 c: okay so you can see that it would be a benefit to figur it as what you like and what you feel confid do versus kind of just tell you all these differ thing
343 c: so tell me you know just to start off with what your thought are about your weight and where you'r at and what you want
112 t: i have high confid but at time i get down about my weight like i know i should lose weight for myself becaus i'm onli 16 and it not healthi to be the weight that i am so me be the size that i am i can't it some thing i can't do like regular teenag my age so i would like to lose weight but it was like and sometim i think "oh i can't do it" or "it go to be too hard" and i'll just say "forget about it" and i just don't want to do it at all so like late like this summer i decid that i want to lose weight for myself and i'm go to tri what i need to do to lose weight
305 c: right so you'r the kind of person who is you know you'r pretti confid in who you are
328 c: but you also are notic that you'r at a weight that get in your way you know and that there thing that you want to do that you know other kid can do that you can't and so it more it not so much you think it import but you'r just not sure like how to go about it ?
117 t: right
331 c: okay tell me more about the thing other kid can do that you can't that you know you want to chang
112 t: like some kid they go out more like it teen club or whatev now and sometim i'm like oh i'm not go to go becaus peopl may say smart remark to me or whatev and it may be conflict so i'm just go to sit at home and just watch tv or someth
307 c: mm-hmm and it hurt
112 t: it hurt my feel
328 c: yeah so you'v notic that there a coupl of thing you'r say to me one is that you have friend that aren't true friend becaus they make fun of you and that just they shouldn't be do that either way but you'r also you know notic that you know becaus of where you'r at with your weight that you'r avoid situat and you'r mayb becom less social and you don't want it to be that way
117 t: right
305 c: okay so that an import motiv for you
311 c: and you'v also mention health that you know it not healthi to be at this weight
331 c: tell me more about that
112 t: i know that i'm onli 16 and i'm more than 300 pound which is not good at all so and i'm go to get older so when i get older it a possibl that i can gain weight and i don't want to gain the weight at all i want to lose the weight so gain weight will put me at a less advantag of my futur and my health caus i want to grow older and get marri and have kid and stuff
308 c: i see so this is someth you'v realli thought about i mean i can tell you'v put a lot of thought into it
311 c: c and you know you'r weight is over 300 pound and you don't want it to be like that you know that not healthi you have a futur ahead of you you have plan you want a famili and you know that as you get an adult it could get wors and so for you now realli the time that you want to make a chang you'v said this summer "this is it"
117 t: mm-hmm yeah
311 c: 308and now it just a matter of figur out what to do
117 t: right
346 c: when you were weigh today and you learn of your weight is that the first time you'd heard about where you'r at or you kind of keep an eye on that
112 t: when i went to the doctor about a month ago it was 315 and today it 321 and i wasn't satisfi with that becaus it like i gain what six pound and that not good in a month that not good
311 c: right so you'r worri that you'r on like an upward trend and you want to be on a downward trend ?
117 t: right
333 c: okay so tell me what kind of thing you have tri or have thought about in term of chang you know your behavior to reach your goal ?
112 t: c: okay
307 c: for yourself so you'v had a lot of hurt feel you know around the weight
328 c: cand you'v notic that people-you'r feel like peopl treat you differ and what you'v tri so far is exercis and you like it i mean you actual your face kind of lit up when you said it and it someth that you enjoy but when your uncl left then it you know it stop and it hasn't start back up again and so that one area that you'r consid a chang is to think about how to get more activ and you even notic that not onli did you feel good but you start to lose some weight
117 t: mm-hmm
331 c: okay so we can talk more about activ what other thing have you thought about in term of lose weight ?
106 t: i'v tri the food intak stuff and dure the school year it veri hard becaus the school that i go to i go to cas tech and they sell chicken and bosco stick and all this other food and it so tempt that you buy it and it like you eat the food there and then you go home and you eat the same food so it like "oh well i guess i'll eat this again caus it here and it easier" whatev so now my mommi and i we'r tri to get on a diet and not eat the fast food and the fatten food that we eat and stuff and we eat tv dinner that are like smart one and stuff like that so we could watch our food intak and stuff
328 c: okay so you'r recogn that you want to eat less and less fatti food and you'r worri caus school is veri tempt but you'r also recogn that even if you mess up at school there also home and so you'r think about with your mom and you call her your mom that with your mom that make some chang kind of as a team might be the way to go ?
117 t: right
301 c: okay so it sound like you'v thought about chang in activ and you'v thought about chang in your food you know we'r onli here for one day one time today although we can tell you about some other program that we have ?
305 c: but you know if we think about some small chang that you can make you know when you leav here today that you want to make and that you feel confid you know let first talk about exercis
333 c: you know what kind of thing do you think you might be abl to start do in the next coupl week around your activity</text ?
112 t: i can start caus it a treadmil in my home i can start walk on the treadmil or we have on the tv they have like littl a place you can go on demand they have yoga and stuff like that becaus yoga i like yoga too like i'v never went to like a class at like a place but it seem like i'll like it and it a lot of mental stabilit in yoga and i realli like it
311 c: mm-hmm so you like the mental and the physic benefit of yoga and then you mention the treadmil
302 c: c so i have some inform here about what the recommend are for physic activ to lose weight would you like to take a look at them ?
117 t: mm-hmm
305 c: and again these are just recommend so it up to you to make it fit like you said for you okay ? so okay
302 c: so okay so the ultim goal and again you know i'm not say that tomorrow you'r go to start it but is you want to tri to do some activ for an hour a day
117 t: okay
306 c: and three day a week of those should be like more intens like you know you said the treadmil and then the other day you could do a mix of treadmil stretch which would be-actu yoga doe strength and stretch so this kind of give you a nice pictur of what to do at least you know what your long term goal 60 minut a day of or 60 minut three day a week of high intens and then ad some other thing so given you know what do you think of that ?
117 t: right
308 c: but you also have some realli good idea about how to implement some of the stuff at home so think about this plan you know what could you see start tomorrow or today ? what could you see do today ?
348 c: okay so if you see the treadmil be your high intens right ?
117 t: mm-hmm right
306 c: so it sound like you have some realli good idea on how to get start and that for you the key is go to be just do someth everyday and mayb not the perfect thing which would be the gym but you know a substitut okay so did i get that right ?
117 t: yes
311 c: i mean it sound like that someth you realli would like
302 c: so i can leav this with you becaus it'll just help you track like you know your goal of tri to do someth everyday and mayb eventu work up to this what do you see as get in the way ?
344 c: what would get in the way of your plan today let say you know leav and start this ?
109 t: i think get in the way is myself and i think at time the major of the time that i can't do it and i like to see result quick and i know that it not go to happen like that so in my head i'm like "oh if i can't see it like in mayb two week that i'v lost like ten 20 pound then i don't want to do it"
308 c: okay so that a realli excel you know insight kind of into yourself that
305 c: kind of person that want to see quick result and sometim you have result that are unrealist and you know that you know you'r go to get discourag and kind of give up and like you don't want that to happen
302 c: so if it okay with you we could talk a littl bit about what are some realist goal and how you can see if your plan is work ?
305 c: okay is that someth you'd like to discuss ?
117 t: mm-hmm
302 c: okay so you know typic for weight loss we'r look at a goal of one to two pound a week so if you are lose a pound a week you know that would be someth you should be excit about which is not ten or 20 pound in a month but it like about a pound a week ?
306 c: so what do you think of that ?
112 t: i like that idea becaus it more realist and it someth that i know i can do if i realli put my mind and time into it
311 c: okay so a pound a week is someth that you think is reason and you like the idea of have like a more realist goal so that you can be excit about it ?
117 t: mm-hmm
331 c: so how would you monitor that pound a week ? do you you know what do you have a scale at home or would you have to go somewher els or you know what would be your option ?
106 t: i don't have a scale at home but i will be tri to get one as soon as i possibl can and then i'll be like work out and stuff and then like at the end of the week i'll see what i'v lost and then i'll write it down and then so on and so forth
302 c: okay alright so you'r interest and the other thing to realiz is weight can go up and down so you might look at it everi week but don't make a decis on whether you'r success until the end of the month you know what i'm say ? like if you'v lost-caus some week like if you have your period or you'v had a lot of salt you'r weight can be higher but if you'v lost like about four pound by the end of the month you know then you know you'r on track ?
313 c: so it sound like one of the step you'r talk about is get a scale and that would help you
305 c: so some teen find it help to write their goal on a piec of paper and other teen just prefer to talk about them which would you prefer ?
112 t: i like a mixtur of both
305 c: okay so you can have you write or i could write for you base on what we'v discuss what would you prefer ?
119 t: you can write
333 c: okay so your plan is to ?
106 t: my plan is to basic to exercis more to eat less of fatti food and to get more self confid in my weight loss
313 c: okay so eat less fatti food and more confid
305 c: okay and you'v also notic that with your exercis you start to feel more confid even if you'r not show result immedi just do it make you feel better so it sort of all fit togeth  ?
333 c: so exercis more you had some specif idea mayb we'll put that down on what were some of the thing you'r go to do right away in term of exercis more ?
106 t: i'm go to get on the treadmil more frequent and do weight
313 c: okay you'r go to do get on the treadmil and you want to do weight
106 t: and yoga definit yoga
313 c: and you mention yoga you know that there some tv program
333 c: c what do you know about when they are and when you know when to check them out ?
112 t: they'r on on demand becaus we have comcast so it under the fit channel
313 c: so you alreadi have a plan
117 t: yeah
333 c: you got yoga on demand you know the channel it just make that hour a day to do it okay and you know on a scale from one to ten where one is like "i'm not at all go to realli do this i'm just say it caus i want to" and ten is "i'm definit go to do it" how commit are you to tri to get in that one hour a day of activ ?
107 t: i'm at a ten
313 c: you'r at a ten ! you are like "i'm readi to go i'm go to start this when i go home" okay so i'm go to put then in one hour a day of just someth right now even if it a combo of you know ten minut walk the dog ten minut of yoga or someth but you'r go to do an hour a day
326 c: you mention a veri import thing that might get in the way which is get discourag if you don't see quick result
117 t: right
313 c: and you also came up with a plan for that ?
333 c: how are you go to manag that ?
106 t: i'm go to set more realist goal and stop have so much self-doubt
308 c: mmm you are you have a realli beauti way with word
313 c: okay set more realist goal and not have so much self-doubt
333 c: reduc self-doubt okay and what is your goal ?
119 t: my goal for the whole weight loss ? or
333 c: yeah or what the realist goal you'r tri to set for yourself so that you don't have self-doubt ?
106 t: my realist goal like for let say about mayb i'm go to say five month becaus that what i'm plan for
302 c: okay so let think about the pound to two pound a week
346 c: so how much would that be in a month if you were go to lose one to two pound a week ?
119 t: it would be approxim four pound
302 c: okay four pound and over five month then that would be 20 so mayb 20 to 40 pound
117 t: right
306 c: might be more might be realist base on that doe that make sens to you ?
117 t: mm-hmm
313 c: okay so five month 20 to 40 pound
333 c: c okay and you had a plan for monitor that so that you keep up the program what was your plan for that ?
106 t: my plan for lose the weight and for be on my program was to basic do more exercis and to eat less of the fatti food and to get my nutrit better becaus i know that it not as good as it can be
308 c: so but we need to talk about some nutrit goal it sound like also okay you mention weight about the scale so i'm go to put that down here that you'r go to get a scale and weigh yourself onc a week but you'r go to look more at like the month you know
117 t: right
112 t: i want to eat more veget and fruit
302 c: so you know if you'r talk about veget with salt versus chip with salt it you know you'r say that veget with salt even if the salt not great it still better than the chip with salt so it sound like mayb substitut you know at least onc a day veget instead of chip how mani time a day do you eat chip ?
103 t: like a day mayb onc or twice a day
311 c: okay so you'r think that if you eat veget instead of chip and mayb limit your chip to a certain number of time that might be worthwhil
117 t: yeah
333 c: so how would you like me to write that ?
106 t: eat less of eat less snack food like i'm go to go slow and tri to everi onc like onc a week or someth
305 c: eat snack food only-what realist for you ? i mean if you'r eat it twice a day and you drop it to a coupl time a week that still go to be a big chang you know so what realli realist for you that you feel like you can stick with ?
106 t: three time a week
313 c: okay so eat snack food onli three time a week okay ?
344 c: okay what do you see get in the way of that ?
109 t: that it in the hous and if it wasn't there i couldn't get it becaus i don't drive and i can't walk to the store to get it so
330 c: okay
112 t: if it not in the hous i can't have it at all
331 c: okay so how are we go to fix that problem ?
106 t: not buy it
313 c: okay don't buy ?
332 c: okay who buy the snack food ?
109 t: my mom and sometim i do when i'm out
331 c: okay so let talk about some of the thing your mom can do to help caus we'r go to meet her next
109 t: she can becaus i know that she older becaus my birth mom die give birth to me and that my grandma and she adopt me so that the onli mom i know so i know that she older and she can't like exercis as much as with as me as she want to and she unemploy at the time but she work sometim from like nine to one at this place downtown so it like we don't do as much as we want with each other with the weight stuff like we don't exercis and stuff and we don't spend a lot of time with each other becaus when she not home i don't sinc it summer i don't realli wake up until like 12 or oneish so when she get home i'm just get up and then she tire so she goe to bed and
312 c: so realli reli on her for exercis isn't an option right now ?
117 t: right
311 c: you did mention two other area that she could help with which is the scale and the snack
117 t: right
331 c: so what would like me to write down in term of someth she could help you do in those thing ?
112 t: she can get the scale
331 c: okay and doe she have resourc for that ?
117 t: mm-hmm
311 c: okay so get a scale
302 c: okay okay and befor you leav i want to doubl check about if we have ani recommend for scale that are accur you know where your weight is ?
331 c: so get a scale and what els ?
112 t: and she can not buy as much snack food as she doe
311 c: okay so no buy snack food caus if you'r go to onli do it three time a week then that could be the day that you go you know and get it
117 t: right
311 c: versus just have it around you'd actual have to go get it
310 c: okay so no buy snack food but you did mention some strength which is that she alreadi has lot of fruit and veget in the hous
311 c: it just like you need to if there noth els then mayb you'll eat them
117 t: right
309 c: okay so this sound like a realli good plan that you want to exercis more and you'r go to start with an hour a day but mix it up caus you'r readi to get on the treadmil an hour everyday but you are readi to mix it up yoga treadmil you know walk around weight and you'r veri commit to this and you'r go to weigh yourself onc a week with a goal of a pound to two pound a week
328 c: and you'r go to limit snack food by ask your mom not to buy it and bring it in the hous
117 t: right
331 c: and whi do you want to do this ?
305 c: just in your own word so i can put it down here
113 t: i want to do this becaus i have a futur and i know that i want to succeed in life becaus i like to sing and that what my profess i want that to be my profess when i get older and i want to have a husband and kid and i want to basic watch them grow up and be activ in their life
311 c: so you want-you have a futur and you want to be healthi and activ with your famili ?
117 t: right
309 c: okay well that sound like a good reason to me and it sound like again that this is you'r realli feel like now is the time that you'v been upset about this for awhil it affect your friendship it affect your social life and you'r worri about it affect your health and you'r realli readi for a chang and you'v made some kind of veri specif goal becaus you know that if you set these huge goal then you kind of give up
328 c: but if you set kind of veri specif realist goal then you'r more like to do it
117 t: okay
309 c: okay well that sound great
306 c: is there anyth els that you want to bring up relat to this plan ?
301 c: so i'm go to meet with your mom and i can go over this with her i can kind of talk about it more in general and wait for you to come and talk with her what would you prefer</text ?
119 t: you can talk about it with her
301 c: okay alright so then i'll leav it and then when you come togeth we'll kind of share togeth what we came up with
117 t: okay
308 c: okay so come on great job
117 t: thank you
