345 c: i'm kati how are you ?
117 t: i'm good
301 c: good alright so thank for wait around for me and get all those the paperwork done and everyth i just want to let you know that we'r actual go to start the time now where they turn the camera on and it sound like you'r you know it seem like you'r okay with that you rememb read about it
117 t: mm-hmm
305 c: and i'm not here to tell you what to do i don't know if you'v met with peopl befor to talk about those thing but that realli isn't alway help to peopl to tell them what to do so it just i'm realli here to see what thing i might be abl to help with if anyth and i'll meet with you and then your mom and you know then to work on whe you know have certain thought ?
324 c: so pretti bore stuff so far ?
343 c: laugh well when you come and kind of talk to somebodi about this you know thing with nutrit and activ i don't know if you have certain thought like you know how do you feel about your weight ?
110 t: i think well i was feel bad but i found out that it these diseas that i just found out i had that made me gain the weight
311 c: so you found out you have some stuff relat to weight
110 t: i just found out i had diabet last year and now they said i got poli or someth with my ovari
312 c: okay and you'r feel more reliev that it the diseas fault you'r gain weight
110 t: i didn't never use to understand whi becaus i didn't never eat that much or noth
312 c: so it kind of gave you a littl bit of an answer as to what might be go on and sinc you have that answer it kind of chang the way that you think about the weight
110 t: noth much i just never know how it got there
307 c: so you you have an idea now of like how it got there and you'r deal with stuff like the polycyst ovarian syndrom and and the diabet and it take a lot of effort to to have to handl those thing ?
333 c: so when you you know think about the stuff that go on with your bodi and then also the your weight you know what stuff do you want to do about it ?
106 t: well i'v been tri to lose weight but it realli never go anywher
313 c: so you'v been make an effort to do some chang but it not realli happen
310 c: and so you'r almost kind of this idea of do i keep tri or you know do i kind of push it to the next level or do i just kind of give up becaus there noth i can do ?
111 t: somewher in the middl
311 c: so you'r kind of wonder you know what are some thing that you can do becaus ?
333 c: you'r still feel that this is someth you want to you want to work on you do want to lose weight well what kind of thing have you been do ?
106 t: like i walk around in the mall and stuff and then i run play with my littl nephew and stuff and do basketbal
313 c: so you'v found way to be activ yeah and you'r do that on a a regular basi
343 c: well tell me a littl bit more about that
105 t: i don't realli go to the mall that much i see my nephew and everybodi everi day
313 c: alright so there are some thing that you don't you know do as often becaus you can't get there but other thing that you'r do everi day
310 c: and you know it sound like you'r realli familiar with the fact that in order to to lose weight it is someth that you have to do everi day and it kind of stay with you and you'v got to work on it on a regular basi
308 c: not everybodi kind of see that you know they'r they'r not alway readi to kind of go everi day and do someth toward their weight yeah
312 c: you haven't realli mention a lot about the eat side of thing other than when you first came in you said you notic that you don't realli eat a lot so you didn't know where the weight was come from
112 t: no i can't eat a lot of the regular stuff becaus my blood sugar go up
307 c: so it pretti frustrat
109 t: and i have to eat when i'm not hungri to get my blood sugar back up
307 c: so there a lot that of effort that goe into also manag your blood sugar and find the right stuff the type of food to eat and it pretti tire to have to do that everi day now
330 c: well what type of thing would be help to you in order to to see about you know whether-wel let me let me start over here
325 c: you kind of mention you'r in the middl with with want to think about lose weight you know you haven't realli kind of said no i'm not even go to do it anymor but at the same time you'r not realli sure what you want to do or or how to do it
112 t: i know i want to lose weight i just don't i inaud go into get anoth gym membership
311 c: so you'r go back activ you know get anoth gym membership is kind of a a fun way for you to work on the weight loss and that someth you'v been think about for a littl while ?
331 c: well what about the the gym membership that make you want to you know go that way ?
112 t: becaus i don't like go outsid and exercis i'd rather go to the gym
311 c: alright so you you know you'v found a way that it kind of fun for you to do exercis if you'r at the gym okay you know i have a littl inform about kind of physic activ and the amount that it recommend that peopl do would you want to hear ani of that ?
302 c:
117 t: mm-hmm
305 c: alright so you know if it alright with you i'll just go ahead and kind of touch on a coupl thing that are on here and if it get bore or it stuff you'v alreadi heard of just say "hey kati you know i know this stuff" we don't have to talk about it alright ? we'll talk about someth els
302 c: but this realli break down this idea that for for everyon especi for peopl that are tri to lose weight the goal is to do 60 minut of activ everi day and for a lot of peopl it can be broken down into thing like do aerob activ strength activ and stretch and some peopl start at smaller amount than 60 everi day and work up to it you know to get to that goal like mayb ten minut and other peopl will do stuff like everi other day or they'll pick a coupl day of the week to do thing
305 c: how doe that kind of fit into what you'r do right now or what your idea for your activ goal for lose weight ?
311 c: so in the past you'v done some stuff with the aerob
109 t: noth was chang
307 c: and you didn't see ani result and it was realli frustrat
312 c: so sinc you didn't realli see ani result kind of stop do that
331 c: well what is it that you would want to see happen dure the activ ?
109 t: i don't think i'm go to tri again to becaus noth no pound was go away it just stay the same
310 c: so with the activ you were abl to keep your weight the same as oppos to to gain more weight and that was a littl bit differ becaus you weren't you weren't see you weren't lose weight but you also weren't gain weight when you were do the activ
306 c: it sound a littl crazi doesn't it ?
311 c: so you did some of the aerob stuff in the past and you'r talk about mayb kind of go to a gym again
331 c: what type of you know whi would you want to go to to go to a gym again ?
112 t: like i was go there at first and then didn't have a ride i like to do gym
311 c: alright so it was definit someth that you like
331 c: what did you like about it ?
112 t: becaus they have the machin there
311 c: and you could kind of get on a machin and it was you didn't have to be outsid alright so there were some good thing for you for go to the gym
330 c: alright so mayb we can kind of come back to that when we you know a littl bit later
302 c: you know the whole idea of go to a gym if that okay anoth thing that i kind of want to point out on here is this idea that peopl who are do a lot of thing like watch a lot of tv or be on the comput a lot often time aren't be activ you know becaus you'r sit there and watch those and so peopl find that they have a better time or they they'r abl to lose weight by cut you know cut down on some of the time that they spend watch tv or be on the comput
306 c: c : what do you think of that info ?
117 t: hmm i don't know
305 c: i mean you'r not realli sure how that that would work for you in term of lose weight well what els on here grab your attent ? is this one of the bore part where you want to say "kati i'm done with this one let talk about someth else" ? becaus this is you know this is realli kind of what would you like to talk about today while we'r in here so if you'r done talk about this you can just let me know ?
324 c: so you'r not say anyth kind of make me think that you'r not realli want to talk about that
305 c: so if i put it away that would be okay with you ? okay alright
331 c: now tell me so i mean on a scale of one to like we can say like zero to ten where zero would be not at all import and ten would be veri veri import how import is it for you to to lose weight ?
113 t: a ten
311 c: a ten it veri import
331 c: you know what make you say that ten instead of like a i don't know like a seven or an eight or someth like that ?
112 t: becaus i don't like my weight
311 c: you'r not happi with where you'r at right now
331 c: what about your weight make you not happi ?
112 t: becaus i don't i'm too i got too much weight to be my age
307 c: and that make you pretti sad
331 c: well what els make it realli import ?
311 c: so you'd be abl to stop take
112 t: just take the pill
311 c: and that would be someth that would make it a lot easier for you so so reason you know relat to your health along with just kind of the way that you feel when you'r around peopl
331 c: well you know tell me how you know how confid are you ? again if we think about those same number again like zero to ten where zero would be like not at all confid and ten would be veri confid that you can find someth either some kind of activ or some kind of eat thing to do on a regular basi to help lose weight ?
111 t: five
311 c: five
346 c: so you'r in the confid rang right ?
331 c: hmm alright and what make you that five instead of a lower number ?
112 t: becaus i know my diet alreadi under control becaus it i have to have it
311 c: mm-hmm alright so the diet side of thing you realli have to do becaus of diabet so you feel good that you can stick with that
117 t: mm-hmm
331 c: what would it take to bump you up to a higher number ?
117 t: i don't know
112 t: probabl if i lose some
311 c: so if you saw some result it would kind of get you go yeah
333 c: well tell me about some time in your past when you did some thing that either stop you from gain weight or help you lose weight ?
110 t: i didn't do i don't know becaus when i was younger i didn't realli use to like i didn't realli use to know how much i weigh inaud i would just talk to my mom
328 c: okay so this wasn't someth that peopl would talk to you about when you were younger it kind of a new thing that you'r worri about your weight tri to lose weight alright and if you saw some weight stuff you might you know if you saw some of the weight come off you'd be abl to kind of keep up with those thing alright well let me see if i kind of have have thing straight so far you you'r not veri happi with your weight right now and you'd like to lose some becaus it would number one kind of make you feel better when you were out with other peopl your age and then also becaus it would help you to to not have to take shot anymor and that someth that veri import for you to do you'r a ten and you know at the same time you'r realli you'r feel like the food stuff is someth that you have to deal with a lot to help manag your blood sugar and you'r mention activ as someth like join the gym that would be a help way for you to to work on get your your weight loss down you know to increas your weight loss ?
306 c: what edit do you want to make to that ? what did i leav out or what do you want to add ?
323 c: i got it all ?
302 c: okay alright so what do you want to you know where do you want to go from here ? some peopl that i work with when we get to this point will say you know "i don't want to work on anyth it was realli nice to come in and talk to you but this wasn't realli help for me and i'm i just i want to leav you know the room" and other peopl will say like you know what ? i realli want to make a plan i want to think about what i can do mayb start like next week or even start like tomorrow and i want to just kind of see if i can put it down on paper becaus that will be help for me ?
305 c: you know where do you fall with that ?
112 t: probabl make the plan
305 c: the plan is someth for that will be good for you
302 c: well well tell me you'v you know talk a lot about you know the activ side of thing be where you would like to focus your energi becaus a lot with the eat is someth that you'r alreadi work on so i'm go to kind of say like what your your plan is and you know just just to kind of let you know when i work with peopl a lot of time the most specif that they can get about the plan like kind of make like realli small littl thing that they can start with often time is is help becaus then they will you know see littl they won't they'll be abl to kind of reach those easier but that doesn't alway work for everybodi
305 c: so think about that stuff and think about you know mayb start small what what would your plan be for activ ?
112 t: i could probabl start walk my dog everi day
313 c: walk the dog everi day oh that came to you pretti easili hmm
331 c: now where'd you get that idea ?
112 t: becaus my mom tell me everi day
311 c: okay so that someth your mom has mention to you and so it someth that you can kind of do and you'r think that that might be a good way to start hmm
331 c: well whi whi do you want to do this ? i mean this is an idea from your mom but you you brought it out here on the tabl when you could have pick anyth els that was out there so what make this someth that you want to do ?
112 t: for becaus i mean me and the dog will get exercis
311 c: alright so you'r think out for your new dog
360 c: what your dog name ?
120 t: raven
327 c: raven too alright well what are what are some thing that could get in the way of you take raven out for a walk ?
311 c: so that you and raven can get exercis
344 c: well what are what are some thing that could get in the way of you take raven out for a walk ?
109 t: the other dog on the block
330 c: hmm okay
344 c: and what els ? be mean and ã¢â‚¬â¦
112 t: probabl noth els
312 c: okay so it not realli a matter of that you know it sound like it not realli a matter of you find the time or get out there but it these other dog that that might get in the way of go
106 t: i just i just walk the other the other way
309 c: oh so you'r alreadi kind of come up with a solut
311 c: so one of the thing you could do is is walk the other way
333 c: what els could you do ?
117 t: i don't know exact that
313 c: alright so this you know you'r no problem walk the other way so you could avoid those dog alright
333 c: so what the first thing that you can do in order to reach your goal of get out with raven everi day to walk ?
112 t: i can just go laughter
313 c: just do it ? alright so just go alright
331 c: and what is someth that that help to help you rememb to go
112 t: like i put the alarm on my on my phone
305 c: so you'r realli kind of think about how you can you know stay up with that and i just want to check in with you becaus i mean you don't have to be you know say this stuff just for me like this is realli you know kind of your plan so if that idea isn't someth you want to do you don't have to do it i don't have to write it down but if you want me to write it down i can too
306 c: write it ?
328 c: alright so you'v got this great idea to kind of walk the dog everi day both of you guy are get some good exercis you'r watch out for the other dog by go the other way and kind of help yourself to rememb
331 c: but what someth that your mom could do to help you reach your goal ?
117 t: hmm
307 c: this one is a littl tougher yeah
112 t: i guess if i forget she can remind me
311 c: okay so you'd be okay with her kind of say "hey go walk the dog"
109 t: no i think that whi i didn't walk the dog becaus she'd tell me and then i i don't know
312 c: she kind of bug you about it and it make you not want to do it yeah so yeah you know realist you don't want peopl bug you and actual it actual make you not do it ?
331 c: so what was what would be someth that she could do in order to not keep you from your goal ?
112 t: don't say noth about it laugh
311 c: oh kind of leav you alon and let you get it in on your own okay hmm i see so in fact that her not say anyth would help you do it on your own becaus you got your watch set and all that stuff alright
331 c: so what do you think about this plan ?
112 t: it it good
305 c: yeah it good i mean it not you know not my plan i mean it your plan so you'r think that it a good plan what make it a good plan for you ?
106 t: becaus it exercis and then i will start go to the gym
328 c: okay so this is kind of a way for you to get your exercis go and then if you want to do other thing when you'r readi like go to the gym that there too okay cool so we had our time kind of here today to talk a littl bit about you know where you'r at with your weight and and how it kind of pretti scari and frustrat to have to take the shot and if you'r abl to lose weight and see weight result that would be realli help for you and we put togeth this sweet plan to to work on get the activ in everi day sinc the food stuff you deal with a lot to help manag your blood sugar
301 c: and how would you like me to share this with your mom ?
112 t: you can just show her
311 c: just just show her alright so you don't you'r fine with kind of we can kind of talk about it in that way alright and when we come back togeth and you know kind of the three of us sit down as we go how would you you know want to share that with her ? you know what would you say ? if you were like alright mom this is my plan this is what i'm go to do
302 c: and when we come back togeth and you know kind of the three of us sit down as we go how would you you know want to share that with her ? you know what would you say ? if you were like alright mom this is my plan this is what i'm go to do
106 t: hmm tell her i'll walk the dog but don't tell me to
311 c: alright so you kind of you don't mind realli say that to her and you'r go to be
301 c: alright cool well then i'm go to have you guy go ahead and switch place
306 c: anyth though that i miss that you want to bring up here ?
117 t: no
309 c: alright so thank for come in today and get with all the paperwork and everyth
