301 c: destini i'm lisa todd it nice to meet you
305 c: to let you know a littl bit about the way that we'll work togeth is i'm here to help you talk a littl bit about weight loss and what you might like to do but i'm not here to tell you what to do so realli this is kinda your show i'll help you come up some idea and mayb you and i can come up with someth togeth that you might like to do the other thing is that we'v kinda found that just tell peopl what to do doesn't realli work veri well so you might have had that experi befor in your life where peopl just tell you- boss you around a littl bit it not quit as effect as come up with your own plan so that whi we do that is we figur that the better way to go okay
301 c: so you and i will meet for about 20 minut and then i'm gonna meet with your aunt and then i'll bring the two of you togeth and we'll talk for anoth 20 minut or so
306 c: and whenev i'm meet with your aunt you have some other stuff that you'r gonna do with our research staff and you might wait in the wait room a littl bit too so so do you have ani question befor we get start ?
117 t: mmm no
343 c: okay so well how about if we just start by talk a littl bit about your weight and how you feel about it what you'v heard
112 t: um i realli don't know what to say becaus i know that i'm kinda overweight but i do wanna lose weight and i know i should lose weight like and as far as i do like it hard for me to lose weight becaus everi time i gotta do sport i don't lose weight and i'll notic whi i don't i should lose weight so
331 c: well tell me a littl bit more about that if you would about the idea that you should lose weight where doe that idea come from ?
106 t: caus like i like i work veri hard to lose weight when i'm do sport but just if i just it just doesn't go off i just don't lose weight
307 c: so on one hand you feel like there a need to lose some weight and on the other hand you feel a littl frustrat that you'v tri to and it doesn't realli seem to work out for you
325 c: but at the same time i hear a littl bit in your voic as you'r talk too that you don't it sound like you'r not realli sure you need lose weight or how much mayb
306 c: is that true ?
332 c: can you tell me a littl bit more about that not be sure that you need to ?
106 t: i'm not realli posit caus of how like i know i have to lose weight caus it good for my health and i do want to lose weight but but if i like me and my cousin we my aunti say we go we have to go to the well we do go to the like i mean the a club call the boy and girl club and i do activ there and i go to the park everi weekend and i still don't lose weight and that kinda frustrat
304 c: okay so you realli tri to make sure that you are veri activ you do a lot of stuff that involv move around and run around too that sort of thing but it seem like it doesn't chang your weight and you'r kind of curious as to whi that might be
332 c: is that someth that make you wonder if you realli do need to lose weight ?
117 t: yes
331 c: yeah ? how about your doctor ? have you talk to your doctor ? have they made ani recommend ?
120 t: they said that i had this thing call thyroid i just found out that i had it caus my when i was live with my other aunt she didn't tell you know my other aunt that i had it so we just found out this summer
306 c: what doe that mean for you ? do you know ?
120 t: caus i realli don't know what thyroid is what it doe to you but the doctor say that it not it not go to affect me lose weight
328 c: oh okay alright so it an interest thing you have found out that you have a thyroid condit but you'r not realli sure what that mean for you and as far as your what you'v learn from your doctor it not someth that should affect your weight
301 c: so i have a littl bit of inform about that that may might be help if you would like to hear it okay i don't know a lot about thyroid but i do know that for some peopl it doe make it more difficult to either lose weight or gain weight if that not true base on what your doctor say it might be worth just check in onc in a while to find out if that someth that chang over time
117 t: okay
346 c: okay now has anybodi ever shown you a chart that show where your weight fall compar to other peopl your age ?
119 t: yes my doctor did
346 c: where did you rank ?
119 t: it like inaud when i was on the inaud i was realli skinni and as like inaud bad and when i didn't live with anyon i start to develop weight so then they show me where i was and i was like where i suppos to be inaud over where i'm suppos to be
327 c: okay and so let see i guess it sound like some thing have chang over time for you yeah okay
331 c: so if you were think about you know whether you should work on weight loss or you need to can you think about rate yourself on a scale of one to ten with one be you don't need to lose ani weight at all and ten be you need to lose quit a bit where would you say that you fall ?
112 t: five
331 c: okay so right in the middl ? what make you think you'r at a five instead of at a four or even a six ?
115 t: caus i'm realli to me i think to me i think that i'm realli not that big compar to other peopl that are bigger than me caus it like i know i could lose weight but it difficult for me to lose the weight and it like i see other girl that are like much bigger than me but the kid at school they call me fat and stuff and but there is other girl that are bigger than me and they don't say noth about them
325 c: okay so it sound like some hurt thing have been said and that kinda make you feel like okay mayb mayb i do need to make some chang but at the same time you don't feel like you need to compar to some other peopl your age you'r smaller sizewis ?
117 t: mm-hmm
307 c: so it must be confus for you sometim
302 c: i have a littl chart if you don't mind take a look at it with me that show your weight compar to the weight of some other girl your age you may have seen someth like this befor caus you mention have a chart that you'v look at so this chart right here take your height and weight and put it on this-
306 c: have you seen one of these chart befor ?
117 t: no
302 c: okay so this is what call a growth chart and it realli just say for somebodi who is your age and your what they call bodi mass index which is a comput of your height and your weight that this green section right here is the averag this is too littl weight this is overweight this red area is what they call obes so anyth over that 95th percentil this is where you are right here so you'r in the 98th percentil which mean that even though you might not feel like you'r bigger than some of the other girl the comput between how tall you are and how much you weigh for your age is much on the larger side
117 t: okay
306 c: doe that help to put thing in perspect as far as where you stand compar to some other girl your age ?
323 c: okay
307 c: now this isn't necessarili a bad a bad thing that you can't do anyth about and i wouldn't want you to get the messag that that mean that the thing that some of the other girl have said about you are true becaus those are mean thing that shouldn't be said to anybodi okay ?
311 c: but you mention someth earlier and that is that for your health mayb some thing need to chang
308 c: that a realli good way of look at it is for your health long-term it sound like some thing do need to make some chang
331 c: so what do you think as far as the kind of thing that help peopl to lose weight are ? what would peopl do when they wanna lose weight ?
119 t: work out everi day
329 c: work out okay i'm gonna put this away
106 t: they do activ stuff probabl three time a week i do that they eat better food they don't eat inaud snack they don't get a big meal and they don't um well that it
308 c: okay well you have a lot of realli good idea it sound like you have quit a bit of knowledg about these thing
310 c: so what i hear from you is that for peopl who want to be a smaller size they do a few thing they spend more time be activ and you mention about three time a week activ they make some chang to their eat which includ more healthi food smaller portion eat smaller amount of food and less often so for snack so eat less frequent those are exact the kind of thing that peopl will get recommend from their doctor to do
306 c: so do you mind me ask where you got the inform about that ?
101 t: nowher
308 c: you just seem to kinda know it well i mean those are some super good idea so
331 c: how do you feel about make some of those chang ?
112 t: posit caus i half of the stuff i alreadi do and like the other half i probabl should do more of more of it at home and when i'm away from home that basic it
331 c: okay so if you want to make some chang in the area where you'r not alreadi do these thing how import is that to you to make those kind of chang ? we can use our one to ten scale with one be not at all import you'r probabl not gonna make ani chang at all to ten be the most import thing in your life right now
120 t: like what do you mean by that ?
311 c: you mention that you felt like there were some area that you could make some chang that you'r not do right now
331 c: how import would it be to you to make ani chang ? um as far as food and activ ?
112 t: i'll say i would give it a seven
311 c: okay that pretti high up there seven
331 c: how come a seven and not like a five or a six ?
106 t: caus like that i alreadi do all of most of that stuff so i would just have i would like tri to add it onto my list of do the more healthier stuff like we use to eat a lot of fri food then me and my cousin we said we ask him mom can she start make us bake chicken or veget wow okay and we can go to the park more
313 c: so you'v been ask for help with your food the kind of food that you eat and the way they'r prepar you'v also been ask for permiss to go and do more activ it sound like okay
301 c: so if you and i were to spend some time come up with some idea for specif thing you could do what would be most valuabl to you for us to work on ?
120 t: um can you like say that again ?
329 c: i sure can yeah threw a lot of word in there didn't i ? laugh
305 c: so if you and i were to come up with say a plan of someth that you could do to make some healthi chang what would you like to work on with me ?
112 t: not eat so much food okay and not eat a late night snack okay so it sound and eat more fruit and veget
311 c: so chang in eat are import to you you have three area that you'r look at one is cut out the late night snack one is eat a littl bit less and anoth one is ad in some more fruit
306 c: is that right ?
117 t: mm-hmm
302 c: okay alright so larg if you want to focus on chang in eat i have an idea for someth that we could do if you'r interest i have a plan a sheet that will help us make a plan for a chang that you might like to make would you be interest in work on that ? sure
305 c: okay alright so mayb we could pick one of those that you feel like is the most import thing you could start with and then you of cours can come up with your own plan for the other so if we were gonna make some import chang to the way that you eat food you name three import thing we could pick one of them and say that my plan is to and then say what it is that you would like to chang and then we can fill in some of these other idea of how you might go about do that so what would you like to pick to work on ?
112 t: not get so much food
305 c: okay so how about if i could i give the pen to you ? would you like to write your own plan ? that way it in your word so let see so when you get out of here today if your big focus is on have less food when you eat you'v got that written down here how about if we think about whi you want to do this what would that particular chang be veri import to you ?
112 t: caus like until you start if you stop eat so much food you won't you can get full much quicker and then you like you if you get a big plate then you might then your stomach just gonna expand out as you eat and if you just constant inaud yeah probabl constant well frequent wait no constant eat a lot of food a lot of food it can you can just get full much quicker and you won't have to go for second or stuff like that inaud
310 c: so what i hear a littl bit too is this idea that you have to let yourself be full instead of eat more food you didn't say this but mayb eat faster make peopl not realiz that they'r full right away so those are some idea
305 c: so if we were to say in like one sentenc whi this is the most import thing to you to start right now how can we boil that down to just a few word that you can rememb what would you like to have in your life ?
112 t: not to get all that food on my plate
311 c: okay so let see so your plan is to not get so much food on one plate
331 c: and whi that import whi you want to do that
112 t: so i can get full much faster
311 c: so learn how to slow down and stop befor you'r overful sound like an import thing for you
344 c: okay so if you were to think about what might stop you from do this would you wanna get a smaller portion of food on your plate ? what might make you get too much food ?
109 t: i guess when i see someth that i could just get it
312 c: so someth that could get in your way is see food that you like
344 c: and what would stop you from onli take a littl bit or take a medium size portion ?
120 t: so i'll put in what would get in the way ?
310 c: yeah and that what we'r talk about right now in help you to think about the thing that would stop you from get a smaller portion of food
117 t: okay so
308 c: and you mention a realli good one inaud is when you see someth you like that sometim you get too much
120 t: so put that
305 c: sure you'r the expert in the thing that happen to you so these idea that are come from you are especi help
308 c: paus that seem like a realli what i would call insight comment mean that you see someth that you do that a lot of peopl wouldn't notic that they do that pretti smart that you pick up on that
301 c: so if this was to happen if you found yourself do this let make a plan for what you could do instead
112 t: tri to get someth besid i'll get someth much healthier than that
311 c: so if you see someth that you realli like what it sound like you'r tell me is that if you see someth you like that instead you could
112 t: yes or i could just get like one tini spoon or i could just get a piec of fruit
328 c: okay so you mention two thing one is that you'll tell yourself to take less and two you could just substitut a healthi food instead
308 c: okay so you have two realli great idea
323 c: and yes you'r correct i see that you'r get readi to write
305 c: you could write each of those if you would like to
120 t: i forgot what i said
305 c: so think about yourself in this posit if you come across some food that you realli like paus
309 c: so those are two good idea
305 c: do you feel like those would work for you ?
120 t: the first step that i could take in order to reach my goal is dot dot dot
305 c: yep so if you were to think about inaud when you leav out of here today what the veri first thing you could start do ? um to reach this goal
112 t: go home and get appl or like but i have these littl thing that i get from wal-mart and it come with appl and peanut butter would i be abl to eat that ?
302 c: do you know anyth about look at label like how to read label and what to look for on them ? do you mind if i show you ? i have some thing in here that might be help
308 c: so and you- you'r ask a realli great question
313 c: and i hear you say is there are some food that you think might be healthi choic but you'r not posit and you wanna check in and make sure
329 c: let see i'm not sure what i have i don't think i have someth on label read but mayb this will do let see this isn't quit what i was hope to find but this might help us
302 c: so this is a list of healthi food that could be found in restaur and fast food choic i know that sometim these burger restaur like burger king and mcdonald have thing like this that are like healthi choic this yogurt parfait so if we were to look at healthi choic versus unhealthi choic one of the thing that i'm look at is how big this number is
306 c: do you know what that might be ?
119 t: the calori ?
309 c: you'r exact right
302 c: yep so for someth that look like a snack 200 calori is about what they'r say is a good snack size
306 c: so do you know where the calori are on the label nutrit label ?
119 t: the back ?
309 c: mm-hmm yep
302 c: so if you were to look at the back of that peanut butter and appl snack that you mention and you say that it was about that big or mayb even around 100 then that would be a pretti good size snack
119 t: i have a question so like and this one say energi but inaud that like inaud thing to fresh inaud and no not that one yep the chicken nugget or tender it right here it say that one the-th chick-a regular singl patti inaud mayo or chees is 250 and this one say 250 when shouldn't that be on this half caus it has less ?
308 c: that a realli realli good point that you'r make
302 c: and so one of the thing that not said on here is that it not onli the calori that make food healthi or unhealthi it the way they'r prepar becaus they can have other thing in them
119 t: caus it fri
309 c: yeah
302 c: so the fri food have a lot of oil in them what we call satur fat so those food even though the calori might not be as high for this as they are here it still make this a less healthi choic than this
308 c: but that a realli great question so it seem like you do have some knowledg about calori and food ingredi and that kind of thing and that gonna help you quit a bit when you wanna make some other chang too
329 c: so the reason that i brought this out was to tri to answer your question about those appl and peanut butter snack
331 c: so do you feel like you'd be abl to look at the back of the label and tell whether or not that a good choic ?
117 t: mm-hmm
313 c: okay alright so you mention the first thing that you can do when you leav here today to reach your goal is to get a healthi snack
306 c: is that what you were say ?
106 t: yes inaud yeah peanut butter and appl inaud to get a snack that like peanut butter and i mean yeah peanut butter and appl
310 c: yep you could say that it also sound like a bigger point that you'r make is that choos a healthi snack instead of an unhealthi snack seem like the big messag that you'r get at there paus
301 c: so for a moment befor we move onto that last part of the plan let think for a second about the idea that kid don't alway get to choos what kind of food is avail to them
331 c: do you feel like make healthier choic for your snack and your meal is someth you'd be abl to do ? mm-hmm mean is that food avail for you ?
117 t: yes
301 c: okay and that an import thing for us to think about caus i wouldn't want to help you come up with a plan that you wouldn't be abl to do without somebodi els help so the last part of your plan is how somebodi could be support to you mean how they can help you be success and so we should choos somebodi who you feel like is around often enough
112 t: my um aunt
301 c: okay so let stick someth my aunt can do
112 t: she could when i'm do when i'm eat someth that i should i could not be eat but so i can choos someth healthi she could tell me not to eat it
309 c: okay that sound like a realli great suggest
311 c: so you'r think of way that she could realli be support to you paus inaud
323 c: you have a lot of idea huh ?
301 c: so at this point now you have a plan that you can take home with you and you can put it in some place where you might see it and rememb that this is someth import you said a seven out of ten import that you would like to work on it and you have some idea about how your aunt could help you so this is just one step this is one import chang that you would like to make it doesn't mean that there aren't other thing you might like to do too but this is the thing that you'v chosen as your goal okay ? at this point in a moment i'm gonna walk you out into the wait room and i'm gonna be with your aunt for a littl bit and i'm gonna help her come up with some idea too we can choos to share your plan if you would like to and if you would like to share it with your aunt we could do that in a coupl differ way you could either share it yourself when the two of you come back togeth or i could talk with it-with her a littl bit about it and then we could talk about it again when the two of you are togeth in the room
305 c: what would be best for you ?
119 t: for you to talk about it with her
306 c: okay is it okay if i show it to her ?
117 t: mm-hmm
308 c: so she can inaud ? okay sound good
301 c: well you did some realli good work here i think you came up with a pretti good plan that fit with what you said you want to do and that was to work on chang to healthi eat
306 c: okay so how about this ? i'm gonna stick your plan here for a minut and then i am go to includ your aunt and when i'm finish meet with her i'm go to come get you and then we'll all three meet togeth okay ? befor i do that do you have ani question ?
117 t: no
309 c: alrighti well thank you for meet with me for a few minut
301 c: let me walk you out here okay ?
