306 c: okay ? but everyth els we would talk about would be privat okay ?
301 c: so for today what we'r look at do is help you like i said come up with a plan for what you'd like to do we'll talk a littl bit about what you'v been do
305 c: this might be a littl bit differ convers from what you might have had with say doctor or nurs or other peopl you'v run into who kind of tell what to do i'm not go to do that what i'd like to do is just kind of do some teamwork and figur out you know i'll kind of help you come up with idea okay ? we find that when if you put pressur on peopl or tri to make them make chang it doesn't realli work that well laugh
306 c: so do you have ani question befor we get start ?
117 t: don't think
301 c: okay all right so well whi don't we start out if it okay with just talk a littl bit about what brought you here today what you hope to accomplish ?
119 t: um i was at the doctor and i saw the littl advertis on the wall my mom said i should call so i call and then they talk to me and they talk to her that here i'm here today
327 c: okay so it sound like you just saw someth and thought that this might be interest or help to you all right
343 c: and so what do you think of your weight ?
112 t: i think i'v gain a lot more than i should be for my height probabl
331 c: okay where do you think you should be ?
111 t: not sure but i know i'm not suppos to be as much as i am
331 c: so has your doctor or nurs ever talk to you about it ?
112 t: um i know onc i was told that i was a littl like probabl 20 pound over and that was a while ago but i know probabl it the same issu becaus i'm still the same height i think and i kind of gain more
331 c: okay and is that a concern to you at all ? in what way ?
110 t: becaus well actual i'm kind of activ and i don't see how it still there but it there and i'v actual gain more sinc i just saw the weight
312 c: okay so it sound like that a surpris to you and you'r not realli sure where that come from or how that would be given that you'r activ
109 t: i think it probabl birth control that probabl it but i was hope that i could probabl work it off and it not realli look like it
312 c: so you'r wonder if it part due to take birth control if that made you gain a lot of weight okay
302 c: and that might be an interest question to ring up for your doctor they may be abl to give you some more inform about that i can give you some inform about where you fall on-hav you seen the growth chart that show like what percentil you'r in for height and weight and that kind of thing ? i have one with your specif inform on it if you'd like to look at it okay so let see it here so this chart right here is realli just focus on weight but the peopl that you were work with earlier put your inform into this growth chart and what it show is that if we look at where somebodi is for your age and if we look at you know enter in your height and it come up with a bmi or bodi mass index show that this yellow area would be somebodi who underweight this green area would be somebodi who in the expect rang for weight this is over weight and this is the obes rang and so that look like that might be a surpris to you that you actual fall in what we call the 96th percentil anyth over the 95th percentil is obes
324 c: doe that surpris you ?
110 t: yeah i thought i was just overweight
302 c: yeah yeah it sometim i mean peopl carri their weight differ and if you'r veri activ and if you have a lot of muscl that may go into it a littl bit too becaus muscl weigh more but if you look at this chart you can see that you know this rang is where you fall right now this is the rang that would be a healthi weight for somebodi your height and age okay ? and it doesn't give you inform specif to the number of pound it actual list it by bodi mass index which is a calcul between height and weight
119 t: so this is say i should be at least in this dark green line
302 c: yep that the 50th percentil that exact averag for your height and age so a bmi of 22 and you actual fall at i think it 30 just about 30 okay ?
331 c: so what do you think about that ?
119 t: that suck
307 c: it sound like it not what you expect it kind of an unhappi reaction that you'r have right now well given this inform this is not the end of the world it just inform say that you know mayb there someth more that need to be done than what you were think
331 c: what would you like to do with this inform ?
301 c: just go to stick it back in here
117 t: i don't know
328 c: well have you done anyth so far ? i'v mention that you'v kind of been track on your weight and wonder if there someth that you need to do you kind of indic by the way that you were today that that surpris to you so you kind of have this sens that over time that you'v weigh a littl more than you expect
333 c: what have you tri to do about it if anyth ?
106 t: probabl just work out a lot more or push myself becaus we have like summer band camp or the in the outsid in the heat and we run and then exercis so tri to not stop myself and keep go but at least 0:07:11
313 c: so okay so one thing you have tri to do is you'v tri to be a littl bit more activ and it seem you have some activ that you do alreadi but you tri to add on to that at the end
302 c: c so that is one thing that sometim peopl do when they want to do what we call weight manag so they tri to be more activ there are other thing that peopl do too would you be interest in hear about some of the other thing ? okay so peopl sometim chang what they eat and they chang how much they eat and when i say they chang what they eat they might make differ choic so they might decid to have healthier food like more fruit and veget for exampl and less junk food or less meat becaus those thing tend to be higher in calori so the more calori you take in the more you weigh and it a matter of kind of keep a balanc so your activ that you mention help take away or burn some of the calori but it can't do it all by itself so what a lot of peopl find is that they have to have a balanc of both more activ plus chang to their eat
331 c: can you think of anyth that you might like to chang ?
112 t: probabl my eat laugh
323 c: okay what are you think about when you say that ?
110 t: i like to tri a lot of new thing and mayb the thing that i would tri are kind of a lot more calori than they were suppos to be
331 c: okay can you give me an exampl ?
109 t: well it not new but last night my mom made corn beef sandwich and yeah it a lot of fat and you can see the fat in it
312 c: yeah corn beef is kind of fatti huh
343 c: so what about portion size mean how much when you do eat do you feel like you eat the right amount or too much or too littl ?
102 t: i think i might eat a lot more than i should
331 c: okay how would you know that ?
105 t: i don't know but or read the serv size i do sometim but i would think that if it someth healthi take more serv size than it say and that probabl
313 c: okay so you'r talk a littl bit on the idea that there is a serv size on label that say how much of a certain thing you should have and that sometim if it look like it probabl a healthier item you might have a littl more
334 c: okay what about junk food do you ever have junk food or thing that are higher in calori ?
104 t: i do occasion but not realli a lot
302 c: okay so i do have some idea on thing that you might be abl to chang as far as nutrit goe and mayb you can look at some of the handout i have and mayb make a choic about which one might be the best one for you to focus on would that be okay ? okay
301 c: i'm go to make sure you get these handout that i'm show you too becaus we'r not go to be abl to go over all of them today but let see
343 c: do you do much eat out or do you pretti much eat at home ?
105 t: pretti much eat at home
302 c: okay so some of these might be less relev for you then so for exampl this hand out give you inform about differ thing that you drink and you can kind of compar the amount of calori like for exampl for a sport drink for these differ size of drink these are how mani calori are in each-gener i mean some vari a littl bit but you can see that if you had fast food drink beverag mean a fountain soda that you might also get at a store like a gas station peopl would get a fountain soda there you can see that a 12 ounc drink is usual between 110 and 120 calori wherea a sport drink is onli 75 can pop 12 ounc is 150 so that even more than fountain drink then you can see there are some other choic here too like let see if we can find anoth one that pretti compar well like a diet drink has no calori crystal light an eight ounc onli has 5 which mean a 12 ounc is not much more than that it probabl around seven or eight yeah
306 c: that quit a differ from over here isn't it ?
302 c: yeah so some peopl decid that if they drink a lot of high calori beverag that that a real you know place that they could focus and make some big chang without a lot of effort this is anoth idea now these are-i'm go to show this one to you anyway just becaus it might be worthwhil look at-but these are for restaur and fast food but i think the same would appli for if you had similar food like in your home you can see that for burger for exampl these are some healthi choic and these are some unhealthi choic now each of these would be about one serv each of these would be one serv but you can see if you choos these kind of meal or item for your meal that you actual take in a lot less calori than you do with these kind of item there are some similar with chicken and taco and a few other that we have too pizza if you like asian food
343 c: okay ? do these look familiar like kind of thing you guy might cook at home ?
119 t: mm some of them
302 c: yeah so it not a-it not exact what you'r eat right now but it might give you kind of an idea of oh okay so mayb there are some thing that we cook at home that we might make differ choic and take in less calori the other thing is this right here you were talk earlier about serv size and portion size sometim it can be realli hard to know how much you'r eat if you don't have a label and these are kind of some guidelin to show you you know if you have typic item that you'r familiar with like a comput mous or a tenni ball or a basebal that give you a good idea of what a one serv size for like a cup of cereal or a comput mous which is about this big is a half cup size for the exampl that they'r use is bake potato so that would also help you to watch serv size when you don't have a label avail to tell you
305 c: so if you were think about make some kind of chang to food that might be help to you what do you think you might like to focus on ?
112 t: probabl the groceri list
311 c: the groceri list
331 c: what specif are you think as groceri list ?
112 t: i put a lot of thing on the groceri list that are healthi but mayb mom don't get it becaus of price rang but mayb just find cheaper healthi someth
311 c: yeah so you'r think of look at food that are avail at the store to see if mayb there are some healthier choic that aren't quit as expens
331 c: do you have ani idea ?
112 t: i don't realli know becaus we buy frozen like frozen broccoli we get fresh broccoli everi now and then or i don't know if can veget are the same i think it differ from fresh veget but
331 c: how do you think you could find out ?
119 t: i don't realli think fresh veget has a calori or list on the back of it but mayb figur out some way
306 c: yeah do you have access to the internet at home ?
324 c: no ?
306 c: what about a librari ?
110 t: there a librari but i need a librari card
310 c: oh i see okay so well you know what about book at the librari or at your school librari even do you think that there might be ani that have inform about calori in differ kind of food ?
117 t: mayb so
302 c: you might check that out and see i mean i know that there are a number of book that are written so that might be one way to tell anoth way to tell is that usual unless they have sauc that is on them the frozen veget are pretti compar to the fresh one as far as nutrit and calori content so mayb you might look at the label on a frozen veget and compar it to what a can one say and see if it realli make a differ for you so that anoth idea
331 c: how do you think you might keep track of whether or not you'r make chang that will be help to you ? 0:16:36
110 t: i would have to say check my weight but i would need a scale to do that
333 c: so what do you think peopl do when they don't have a scale and they want to know if their bodi size is chang ?
112 t: probabl go get a physic
311 c: yep that one idea is to go get a physic
302 c: there someth els that you could do day to day that might be help to you in know whether your bodi size is chang or not that how tight your cloth fit so you can kind of use that as an estim as you know like if you find that your pant are get looser for exampl then you know that your size is go down yeah but by the same token if your pant are get harder to button and that kind of thing then you know it go up okay ? so those are some pretti decent idea that you might be abl to use
333 c: what about keep track of the food that you eat to see if they'r help you or not do you have ani idea on how you might do that ?
105 t: probabl keep a list of what i eat on a daili basi or a week basi
308 c: mm-hmm yeah that a realli good idea
331 c: how do you think that might help you ?
112 t: probabl if i see a chang in how my weight is one week or it two week go over like a month and see mayb i can tri and do a lot more of what i did the month befor
308 c: that a realli great idea
311 c: so you realli see that if you had some kind of list that you could refer back to and you saw a chang that you either like or didn't like you'd be abl to look back and say "okay i see what help me or i see what got in my way now i can make that particular change"
302 c: yep i have such a list here if you'd like to see it i can show you how to use it if you want okay so for keep track of food  for exampl some peopl find it help to do just what you did and that is to write down what they'v had and peopl choos to write down differ bit of inform about what they eat but i think like the main thing is what time and when what date that you ate someth what it was you were talk a littl bit about portion size or serv size so you might be abl to write down how mani serv you had some other inform that you may find help is where the food came from so like for exampl did it come from the store or was it homemad did it come from a restaur or did somebodi els make it that kind of thing how mani calori it has so you were talk a littl bit about look at the label and that where you can get that inform as you see chang that you like you might think to yourself "well gosh you know i realli want to have this hamburg tonight but instead i had half a hamburg instead i had a sandwich" and so you can see you know choic that you make might be help to you too and if you were to do that compar what you want to what you actual had you might be abl to calcul out how mani calori you save by make that choic too some peopl also find it help to evalu how hungri they are when they eat to see if they'r realli eat when they'r truli hungri or if they'r eat just becaus the food was there you know and if so you might decid "huh i notic that i'm do that a lot i better make some chang in that area" and other peopl find that mood is relat to when and how much they eat too and these are thing that like you mention unless you realli have some list that you can refer back to it hard to realli know you can onli realli guess
305 c: could you see yourself use someth like this ? what do you think you might do with it ?
105 t: probabl just tri to use it to the best of my abil caus i know some thing might not have the calori on it
311 c: yep so mayb that sheet that i show you befor might be help this one that has differ choic you might be abl to use that to estim when you don't know exact or if you were abl to get some book from the librari that might help you too yep so sometim that is exact what we do we do the best of our to what abil we have
331 c: how abl do you feel to do someth like this ? like if we rate that on a scale of one to ten with you feel like you know i'm just not abl to do this at all be a one and ten you feel like you can go home and realli do this and use it everi day ?
112 t: i have to say probabl an eight or a nine
309 c: oh wow that pretti high
331 c: how come an eight or a nine and not like a six or seven ?
112 t: becaus i think i can do it it just probabl rememb to do it
311 c: okay so rememb is the onli thing you can see that might get in your way
333 c: what do you think you could do to avoid forget ?
112 t: probabl an alarm set on my phone mayb or someth like that
302 c: mm-hmm so peopl do sometim use remind like that they set alarm on their phone or tri to think like when i realli realli want to rememb someth i tri to put it somewher where i'm go to see it
105 t: probabl put it on my mirror
331 c: okay so is that some place that you feel like you might walk past or look in the mirror everi day and that will help you to rememb ?
112 t: caus i fix my hair everi morn in my room
308 c: that a realli great solut that a realli nice way to be abl to remind yourself of someth that you don't want to forget you put it where it go to be in your way
333 c: so of all the thing that we'v talk about so far we'v talk about chang drink that you have or mayb chang the type or amount of food that you have and we'v talk about food log what do you think is the most import chang that you could make right now that you want to make right now ?
112 t: chang the food intak
323 c: okay all right you were just about readi to say someth more about that weren't you ? laugh
105 t: yeah becaus i mean the drink-wis i don't drink pop i'm usual drink water or juic so that pretti handl right there so it probabl just the food
301 c: okay well would it be help to you to talk through a plan that you can actual use someth you can take home with you and guid you through what chang you would like to make ? okay i have one if you-i'm go to stick this away for now but i have a littl plan that we can use and let see this is one for you this is kind of a guidelin that help peopl talk through what chang they would like to make in plan for if someth get in your way what might it be and what could they do about it so that you don't stall out on this realli nice plan that you have we'll also talk a littl bit about what the first step you could take and who could help you to stay on track with your goal some peopl prefer to just talk about this and other peopl would like to write it down so they can realli take it home with them and use it
111 t: probabl both
309 c: okay laugh that sound like a good idea
305 c: would you like to be the one that write ?
117 t: yeah
301 c: so let start by say if it okay with you what your plan realli is
112 t: to lose some weight
333 c: okay and what specif are you go to chang in order to lose some weight ?
106 t: chang my eat habit
313 c: okay so your plan is to chang your eat habit
331 c: so whi is that import to you ?
112 t: i want to get back to the old size i was becaus some of my favorit cloth i can't fit anymor
309 c: uh-huh that a realli good motiv isn't it ? laugh
302 c: okay and now a lot of peopl find that you know as they'r think through specif chang that they might like to make they can think of thing that could stop them or get in their way make it difficult
344 c: can you think of anyth that might make it difficult for you to be success with your plan ?
106 t: probabl travel with the band we eat a lot of-wel at least stop at a lot of fast food but i would like to-wel i don't realli have no choic but to pack my own lunch
309 c: all right so you'v come up with a barrier and a solut just in that one sentenc
326 c: so you said that someth that could get in your way would be the travel with the band
308 c: you have so mani good idea
344 c: can you think of anyth els that may get in your way ?
109 t: probabl our lunch break befor band practic they send us to the store where there are realli not a lot of healthi thing at the gas station and at the deli place
307 c: yeah that can be realli a difficult thing to overcom when you have limit choic
333 c: so what do you think you might do about that ?
105 t: probabl have to pack a lunch again too
309 c: that seem like a pretti decent solut
305 c: i mean i guess if you'r in a situat where the choic that are avail to you are pretti limit and they'r a lot of high calori item and you have the option to just bring your own that one way that you can control what go into your bodi
326 c: you mention someth earlier and that is that you don't get to do the groceri shop that sometim you ask for particular thing and it can be difficult to get them into the hous
344 c: is that someth that you think might get in your way too ?
111 t: i would have to say the onli thing that i can possibl do is to get my own groceri laugh
331 c: mm-hmm are you abl to do that ?
109 t: not without a job
301 c: oh okay okay well let see if we can figur out between us what might be a temporari solut
331 c: how import is it to you to have particular groceri in the hous ?
109 t: i'd rather have them but it just not avail when need
307 c: yeah and that a difficult thing isn't it
310 c: do you feel like if you and your mom for exampl were abl to come up with some idea on healthier food that mayb are not quit as expens but better than some of the thing that you have right now
346 c: do you think that that might be a good compromis ?
111 t: it might
310 c: i mean mayb mayb not the healthiest most expens food but i bet there are some healthi choic that are not quit as pricey you know so that might involv some thing like do a littl research or work togeth to come up with some compromis
344 c: so do you think of anyth els that could get in your way ?
111 t: not realli
309 c: okay well you'v got some pretti good thing there it sound like those are the main three thing that get in your way for healthier eat
328 c: and now that we'v talk through some idea you have some new tool that you can use and you'v talk a littl bit about keep track of what you eat that might be help to you
331 c: how confid do you feel like you can realli follow through on this plan ?
113 t: realli confid
331 c: okay so if we rate it on our scale of one to ten ten be the most confid one be not confid at all where do you fall ?
113 t: probabl a nine
308 c: wow that realli impress that right up there yeah
331 c: and how come like i ask you befor how come a nine and not i don't know like a seven eight ?
113 t: becaus i realli want to get back in my jean
311 c: yeah laugh that a pretti strong motiv for you isn't it
309 c: it a good thing we wrote that down so that you can see that everi day
305 c: so what do you think would be the first step you need to take in order to reach your goal ?
106 t: i don't know probabl have to say the food at home so get healthier choic or actual eat the healthier choic that are there
308 c: that a realli good distinct between the idea of have it avail and actual use it yeah
311 c: yeah it sound like this realli is someth import that you feel like you can make some signific chang that will be help to you
331 c: and what do you-what about support ? who do you think could help you out ? mean that this down here so someth my-you could identifi a person-could do to help you reach your goal what could she do ?
308 c: that a realli nice-
323 c: so you want her to make some chang as well so you'r not the onli one
331 c: how do you think that will help you ?
112 t: it will probabl help push me more and probabl push her more too
331 c: how import is it that you get that kind of support from her ?
112 t: probabl becaus she have some of the same issu
311 c: okay so you see this as kind of a teamwork like if you work on it togeth you'r both more like to be success yeah
308 c: well you have a pretti solid plan here i mean i realli like the idea that you came up with and it sound like you realli hit on some of the major thing that you know will interfer if you'r not abl to take care of those thing by follow your solut here
301 c: so at this point i need to meet with your mom for a few minut excus me and then i'm go to meet with both of you togeth while i meet with her she and i are go to talk about some similar thing and i might ask her what her idea are on how she could be support to you when we meet togeth we'll talk about the idea that you each had and how they can fit togeth
305 c: when you share your plan with her and if you'd like to share your plan with her we can do it in a coupl differ way would you like to share it by yourself when we all come togeth ? would you like me to talk over some of your plan with her while i meet with her ? what would work best for you ?
119 t: probabl if you talk over some of the plan with her
331 c: okay and whi do you say that ?
110 t: becaus a lot of stuff i say goe in one ear and out the other
311 c: oh so you feel like it won't be more effect or she might hear it more if it come from someon els okay
301 c: do you feel like you could talk about it also when we come back togeth ? is it okay if i actual show it to her ? okay well let do that then i'm go to take you out in the other room and i think our research assist have a coupl thing to do with you i'm go to bring your mom in here and then i'll come and get you when it time okay ?
117 t: okay
