301 c: so i'm here to talk with you a littl bit about some idea that you might have regard your weight and whether you'd like to do anyth differ to manag and befor we get start i just want to let you know that this is the part of your session with us that the video camera are on and also just to tell you a littl bit about confidenti whenev you talk to somebodi like me your thing that you say are privat and confidenti unless you give me permiss to share them with somebodi like your mom fore exampl or if you were to tell me that you were go to hurt yourself or somebodi els or that an elder person or a child is in troubl but other than that everyth you say is confidenti
117 t: okay
306 c: do you have question about that ?
117 t: no
305 c: and the other thing is that in our convers today we'r here larg just to talk over some idea about you know a plan that you might want to come up with so this might be a littl bit differ from talk you may have had with a doctor or nurs for exampl becaus i'm not go to tell you what to do but i can help you make a plan for thing that you may want to do okay ? so i'll talk with you for about 20 minut and then talk with your mom for about 20 minut and then bring the two of you togeth and we'll all talk for about 15 or 20 minut again so what question can i answer for you ?
112 t: i mean my mom she tri to motiv me to work out but it-i need somebodi that go to make me she tri to make me but i end up stop i need somebodi that go to need to just like as if it was my school work or someth somebodi that go to push me to it becaus she was tri to make me do it and it would start hurt so i stop
311 c: okay so you had some idea for thing that you'd like to do for work out but you feel like you realli need somebodi to take charg and if they did that you feel like you could follow through
104 t: becaus she go to the-sh have a trainer so she come home and show me what they be do and i did it and i stop becaus it start hurt and she like "keep going" and i sat down i need somebodi that like "keep go don't stop" like when i use to have gym and he use to talk like "keep go or you'r go to get a low grade" and it motiv me and i kept go
311 c: okay so you'v had some experi alreadi with have somebodi realli motiv you in the way that you feel like you realli need and so that sound like you'v alreadi got some idea in your head as to what you'd like to do so if you don't mind if we could backtrack for just a minut and just talk for a second about what you think about your weight and what you would like to do
112 t: okay for me be the age that i am i would like to-i would want to weigh less what i weigh is too high for me to get motiv that how i would want to lose some of my weight
331 c: okay do you have a particular ideal in mind like a particular weight that you'r hope to achiev ?
112 t: at least 125 if it
311 c: okay so you'r realli look to make some pretti big chang it sound like and you have some idea in your head about what you'd like to do
112 t: the thing that my mom do she got the exercis that she do they let-'caus she slim down so i would want to keep with that
311 c: so you see that thing are work for her and kind of like i think i could do that
112 t: yeah and she get motiv and he tell her "no don't stop" i need somebodi like that becaus she can tell me but i inaud
331 c: okay okay so how import is it to you ? how import is that to you to make a big chang ?
311 c: you mention that you want to slim down to about you said 125
331 c: how import is that to you to make a big chang ?
113 t: that real import
331 c: yeah ? so if we were to measur it out on a scale of one to ten with one be not at all import ten be the most import thing in your life where would you put that ?
113 t: most import ten
345 c: what'd you say ?
113 t: ten
311 c: a ten okay so it right up it at the top then the most import thing that you want to do so now you'v mention some about some physic activ that you think would be help to you ?
331 c: and are you awar of other thing that peopl do when they want to lose weight ?
119 t: peopl came in inaud
345 c: excus me ?
112 t: some peopl take they take medicin but i don't i don't want to do that i just want to get it off like work it work it off clean use to it and some peopl like they jump rope stuff thing like that becaus i was at my best friend hous and it was me her two littl brother and her momma we was play a game with the jump rope see who could go the longest then it feel like we was all tire and we just kept go and kept go to see who get the highest number and it was like it was fun and you could see i want like i want to do thing that go to make me lose weight and that be fun at the same time like that that was fun race stuff thing like that
328 c: okay so the two big thing i heard from you are that you see physic activ some kind of workout that fun is an import thing to do and also you mention that some peopl you know take medicin but it sound like that doesn't appeal to you
119 t: it like when they take the medicin it don't make them slim down like get bigger
308 c: well that a realli good point that you make
310 c: is that medicin probabl not the best choic for everybodi becaus you said yourself that you want to learn how to do thing that will last for year to come mean that you get into a routin and you can
112 t: and i can keep go and it go to be pain but eventu when i keep do it and keep do it constant do it i wouldn't get tire but i would be motiv and would just get up exercis on my own
311 c: so you see that thing will chang in the futur that it might be hard at first but later it will be easier yeah
308 c: that sound like a realli great idea i like the way that you think about that
112 t: we got we have the we have a lot of sport i like basketbal but like when i get in front of people-lik i like danc we have a cheer team a danc team a majorett team flag girl i would want to do that though when i get in front of peopl i get shi but peopl my friend they can motiv me say get on the cheer team becaus you know how to do everyth just get on the cheer team and that will help you to lose weight and it will be fun so so the next tryout i'm go to do it
311 c: okay yeah that that i mean gosh you know work out with a team of peopl sound like anoth way that you could realli get into be motiv becaus somebodi will make you do it and it will be fun which are the two thing that you said that you were look for ?
301 c: what about i want to put anoth choic on the tabl for you to think about and that is chang food chang the way that you eat or how much that you eat
305 c:  have you ever thought about that ?
106 t: yes like well we haven't-w don't eat a lot of fast food like my father he have high blood pressur and i have diabet so i don't like we haven't been eat a lot of fast food my mom or my dad somebodi will cook make a sandwich or a salad or someth like for the last coupl of week we onli had we went out twice to eat last night we had chicken from the restaur and mcdonald i think it was just was twice
305 c: okay and so overal what do you think about your eat ?
309 c: i mean i hear a number of posit thing ?
305 c: and do you see anyth that you might want to work on chang ?
112 t: yes it like more veget but it like certain kind like string bean i like string bean corn i like carrot but i like the dri carrot i don't like the mix veget
346 c: so like the one that are uncook ?
117 t: yeah
310 c: yeah those make a realli great snack too yep so you see a need to mayb add some more veget into your diet
332 c: and what about drink like do you drink pop or anyth like that ?
112 t: well my mom when she go to buy pop she get diet pop and she get a littl tea for my littl brother and littl sister
328 c: okay well so you'v talk through a number of realli great idea and you came up with some pretti specif one you want to work out in way that go to be fun that involv somebodi who can realli kind of be a drill sergeant if you will laugh you know realli get you go you also mention ad some more veget into your diet and that that might help too ?
305 c: if i was to help you come up with a plan for what you would realli like to focus on kind of the next step to take what would you like to work on ?
120 t: like as far as exercis ?
305 c: yeah sure or food chang any-i mean that so if i take a step back what i'm ask is if i can help you come up with a plan for yourself to take home and work on what would you like the plan to be focus on and would you like a plan ?
112 t: exercis and chang my food habit
301 c: okay all righti so i have a littl sheet that we can use if you would like to take a look at it that just is realli the outlin of a plan that kind of organ it so that it easi to follow and you can decid if you would like to pull it out or not let see it sound like you are veri interest in do someth differ huh ? so you mention that you might like to do more exercis and chang someth to do with eat so mayb we can talk a littl bit more about specif in what you would like to do i can help you sort through some of the detail if you would like and then we might think about what are your motiv whi is it import to you ? you can also think about what could possibl get in your way do you know whi that might be import to think about ?
104 t: yes becaus some peopl they get motiv on thing and then like they okay for exampl i'll just use myself i'll get home exercis and then my mama call me ask me to do someth els and then when i do it i just stop exercis and just lay down watch tv or i'm with my littl brother or my littl sister
314 c: you kind of get off track
110 t: or the phone ring
312 c: and so if you're-if i'm understand correct you have a sens that there are some thing that could take you off track ?
331 c: so what do you think about the import to be abl to plan for what you'r go to do about those thing when they come up ?
120 t: can you say that again ?
331 c: yeah whi do you think it might be import to plan for what you'r go to do about those kind of thing when they come up ?
117 t: well
307 c: it hard to think about it huh ? laugh yeah
302 c: i have some idea i can share with you if you want to hear them
306 c: so when peopl make a realli import plan like what you'r talk about mayb come up with a workout plan for exampl they often realiz that it might not alway happen but sometim thing are go to get in the way so you mention your mom might ask you to do someth or your brother might come in or someth and then instead of get back on track you stop and you sit down or you lay down and watch tv and if you know that those kind of thing can get in your way and stop you from work out then you can plan ahead and say you know what whenev somebodi stop me or interrupt me what i'm go to say is "would you pleas ask me to do that in about 15 minut i'd like to finish my work out" ? and so it kind of like-and that may not be exact what you decid to do but that an exampl of what peopl sometim do to manag in other word if they can plan ahead then they don't have to tri to think of what to do in a minut they alreadi have in mind what they'r go to be when the problem happen so doe that sound like a reason thing ?
106 t: yes then when i have music like it motiv me more becaus i start danc and it dure a lot of stuff i danc with my littl brother and my littl sister we play wrestl a lot play in the bed just do a lot of stuff when we turn on the music and it make me go quicker like i can see myself have on the music and exercis it'd be-it wouldn't just be bore and tire i would be have fun while i'm exercis
311 c: so the music realli feed into your energi level and it i hear that word fun again that you mention befor
106 t: just like when i'm clean up like i be bore you know wash the dish inaud the music and it make me go faster like i got someth to do later but i don't but i just be wash like go like quicker and be done and then when i'm done i still play with my littl brother and sister like we go outsid for a minut play with the dog and then come back in the hous
309 c: wow okay
120 t: i let them play with the neighbor
305 c: so music is realli key for you in be motiv isn't it ?
112 t: i can do music with my homework and it make me do thing quick
311 c: so you'v realli got a tool there that you can use and it sound as though you'v had some experi that say it pretti effect realli make you energ okay well
301 c: well so and this the onli other piec of it are just think about what the first step is to do today so onc you'v come up with a plan and thought about what can get in your way and then you think okay when i leav here today the veri first thing i can do to help me make-b success with my plan is and we can kind of talk through what that might be and figur out who might be abl to help you you mention that you realli want somebodi to kind of push you and you know we could figur out who that is that you need to do that ?
305 c: okay ? so what do you think ? do you want to tri to write one out or do you want to just talk through it ?
112 t: i could tri to write it out
301 c: okay well i'm go to put the pen in your hand then and befor you start write mayb we should talk it through so you have a shorter thing that you can write ?
305 c: what do you want your plan to be specifically</text ?
120 t: like what you mean like what do you mean ?
301 c: you mention that you want to some more work out you mention a littl bit about chang what you eat if you were to pick one of those to focus on at first you can alway add the other one in later what one would you like to start with ?
112 t: work out
333 c: okay so what specif would you like to do for work out ?
106 t: someth that go to make my stomach go down and then i'll do my arm and my leg
313 c: so you want to start with ab workout it sound like ?
333 c: how often do you think you want to do those ?
106 t: three time in a week
309 c: okay so you have a pretti good idea of what a healthi amount of exercis is and for the three time a week what do you pictur yourself-how long do you pictur yourself work out ?
106 t: well have the music on then you go quick so i realli wouldn't know if i'm just do it like i wouldn't-it would seem like it would take all day but if i have on my music the time will go like it will fli by so like i'll start off with 30 or 40 minut and then as i see that it fli by i would like add on add one a minut or 20 minut stuff like that
308 c: that sound like an excel plan you'v got some good inform about how long is a good amount of time to work out especi when you'r first start
306 c: did you get hat inform from somewher ? are you just guess ?
309 c: it a realli good guess so laugh
302 c: if you would like me to i have a sheet i can show you that talk about how long to work out so this you'r go to get all of these sheet to take home but this sheet right here i think speak to exact what you were talk about that is that if you were to work out three day a week with a goal of get up to 60 minut of high intens workout that like where your heart realli pound and mayb it difficult for you to talk when you'r work out realli hard becaus you have to take so mani breath so the recommend is to start here with stretch to add in some strength but the big piec is to add in the 60 minut of what they call aerob exercis three day a week there are some exampl sever of which you mention
106 t: like walk fast i'm use to it becaus when i'm walk at school my friend be speed up and i'm i catch up and then they be tire
310 c: so you alreadi have some idea on how fast is fast walk and you alreadi do some of that yeah so you should be abl to use the skill that you alreadi have and mayb this will help to give you some guidelin on how often to do it
301 c: okay i'm go to put unless you had ani question i'm just go to stick this back in the folder
117 t: no
305 c: okay so so if we were to put your plan into one sentenc what would you say that your plan is ?
106 t: my plan is to motiv myself and do my plan is to motiv myself and work harder
333 c: okay what about do you want to say anyth about your three day a week and 30 minut to start with ?
106 t: oh my plan is to motiv myself and work out or exercis three day a week for 30 to mayb for about i might be abl to go for half an hour with the music
308 c: that sound like a realli good place to start yeah you know and over time you'll find like you mention earlier that it can increas but that sound like a great place to start i couldn't have said it better myself
301 c: laugh so if you want to write that down if you'r comfort with that word stick it down there
305 c: all right so what about the motiv ? you said that you have a lot of motiv alreadi but you feel like you need some more what motiv you particular about this plan ? whi did you say this is realli what i want to do ?
112 t: how i want to i think i'm too young to weigh that i weigh so i would want to lose some weight so like i wouldn't have to really-from the diabet i wouldn't realli have to do much
311 c: so a coupl thing that you'r talk about are that you feel like you'r too young to weigh what you weight and that there are some health reason whi you want to weigh less it not just like you have this idea but you have some realli ?
305 c: so how do you think you might say that in a sentenc ?
120 t: i would want to do this because-to can i get a tissu ?
301 c: oh yeah let me get you some i'll be right back it that time of year isn't it ? yep i was just go to say that probabl the best thing to do inaud
112 t: whi i want to do this is it becaus i think i'm too young for-becaus i think i'm too young to weigh what i weigh and from health reason
308 c: all right perfect you'r like an old pro at this laugh
328 c: so then you have a plan in mind someth that you'r work toward and you remind yourself of the reason so that someday if you'r not feel so motiv you could look at this and say oh yeah i realli do want to do this and this is whi so you mention earlier there might be some thing that could stop you from do your work out the way that you plan to ?
305 c: do you want to jot down a coupl of them ?
311 c: laugh so look like you have sever differ idea
305 c: do you mind share with me what you came up with ?
106 t: i will tri and get back to exercis tell whoever need me to wait for about 15 to 20 minut or ask if they need anyth befor i start
308 c: oh wow yeah this is realli good plan ahead i like that
313 c: so let see so one thing that you mention is that you tri to get back into your order exercis okay and that you told wait whoever interrupt you to wait and that you'd ask befor you start so that a lot of plan ahead you know for stuff that you can do befor you start in the first place and if somebodi interrupt you you know two plan for what to do ?
309 c: so those are realli nice idea
344 c: and who do you think might interrupt you ?
109 t: my littl brother and my littl sister the phone and my dad ask to do anyth
312 c: okay so you have a few peopl that you feel like could interrupt you
109 t: but most it would be my littl brother and my littl sister
301 c: okay well should we mayb jot down that those are the peopl that you expect to interrupt you the most and that way you can kind of be prepar
328 c: so with these realli great idea that you alreadi have you have a plan where you alreadi know who most like to interrupt you and you know what you'r go to do you have three differ thing that you can do
331 c: how confid do you feel that you can realli manag if you get interrupt or do you need more help ?
106 t: i think i could if i realli if i realli tri i think i could get back to it and so or tri to hurri up and do what they ask me to do and hurri up and get back to what i'm do or sometim my littl brother when i'm do it my littl brother or my littl sister they could they could come in there help do it with me we could start danc
308 c: sound like that would be fun too that a realli nice way to kind of solv the problem is that if they'r go to interrupt you they might as well join in and then
109 t: but then they they alway think my room is the parti room so when i say get out they want to cri and whine so i say come on come back in
307 c: that can be hard to manag
308 c: but it sound like you'v got a big heart laugh so that must be whi they like you so much ?
106 t: i could start do some of the exercis that my mom show me
309 c: wow okay so you
106 t: get some more weight becaus those weight heavi
360 c: yeah ?
110 t: yeah got 30 pound weight
312 c: wow those are pretti heavi
120 t: but she use 20 pound
360 c: is she work up to the 30 pound ?
328 c: so thing that your mom has a lot of stuff that you can use alreadi you mention that she has some idea becaus she work out and you mention that she has the weight so the first step that you can do today is to just do a workout toda ?
308 c: that sound like a great plan no time like the present huh ?
331 c: now who would you like to realli support you in the chang that you'r make ?
117 t: i don't realli i don't realli know
311 c: okay you mention that your mom has tri to that she tri to tell you you know to get back on track or she tri to be support in some way
112 t: and not quit
331 c: yeah do you feel like she could realli be the drill sergeant for you and kind of keep you go or do you need somebodi differ who could do that ?
112 t: i need somebodi stronger yeah
331 c: okay who would that be ? can you think is there anybodi in your hous or mayb in your friendship circl or in your extend famili ?
112 t: my best friend becaus when she was over my hous she was like "come on let do yoga" and my best friend i call her my sister destini
331 c: okay and do you feel like she around often enough that that would realli be abl to be a big help with your three time a week ?
112 t: becaus when peopl ask me they like "do you want some candy" ? befor i even say no she like "don't ask her no more"
309 c: wow
112 t: like inaud and then she when she buy me stuff from the store she make sure she check the calori the everyth
308 c: wow what a realli support friend you have yeah i'm realli impress to hear that that it sound like she been a big help to you
120 t: yeah we buy-lik some friend be like "i want my money back when you done" whatev i buy you i want my money back we buy each other thing
301 c: all right so let write destini down so you could say someth like mayb just cross out the word my and put someth destini could do to help you you just-yeah you just stick her name in somewher there
331 c: so if you think about what specif do you think she could do to help you reach your goal what is it that you would need from her
112 t: she could be there and inaud caus we could both do it becaus she swear up and down that she is big she think she get big she get a littl fat stomach but
327 c: it sound like you don't agre with that
112 t: yeah but she like "we need to start exer"-sh be say "we need to start exercis caus i'm get big" stop eat
310 c: well you know the good thing that you'r pick up on though is that you have a friend that is will to exercis with you and regardless of whether a person is big or get big or not big at all everybodi can benefit from exercis
120 t: caus yesterday was her birthday and tomorrow she have a bowl parti and saturday she have a hotel parti
327 c: wow good deal
301 c: well let figur out someth if it okay with you that she could do or say i think you mention mayb her work out with you and then you'll have a full complet plan that you can take home with you
106 t: i'm go to show her too
330 c: oh yeah go ahead feel free bless you
120 t: okay gotta figur out someth els
305 c: okay well as i mention earlier this is a plan for you for you to take home and you can follow it and if you want to add to it at some point again it your plan so you know as you see chang are need to it you just make them
301 c: some day you may find you need a differ plan becaus you feel like you'v gotten all you'r go to get out of this one and it time to move up to the next level you know so this is meant to give you some idea on how you can come up with plan that will realli help you to follow through use the great inform that you have in a way that help to you ?
306 c: what question can i answer for you about the plan or the other thing that we'v talk about ?
120 t: you'v answer it all
309 c: oh good okay i'm realli pleas to hear that
301 c: so at this time i'm go to in a moment get your mom and i think there a littl bit of work to do with the research assist and then they'll probabl have you wait in the wait room for a coupl minut and you know someth come to mind dure that time that you'd like to mention when the three of us are togeth you'll certain have opportun becaus i want to make sure i give you plenti of chanc to talk how do you think we should share this plan with your mom or do you want to share it with your mom ?
119 t: you could share it with her
301 c: and would you like me to show it to her or just talk about it ?
119 t: you can show it to her
301 c: okay sound good well i'm go to put it away for now and then in a coupl of minut i'll show it to her and then what about onc the three of us are togeth how would you like to be abl to talk about your plan ? would it help if i just said "would you like to share your plan with your mom tell her what we'v talk about" ? okay that sound good and then we'll kind of talk through she'll have some idea and you'll have some idea and we'll kind of talk through those togeth okay let go out in the other room you can either bring your stuff or leav it whichev you'r comfort with
119 t: i'll leav it here
301 c: okay would you like to take the tissu with you ? it that sneezi time of year huh ?
