1	c: what do you think about that kind of stuff in term of you know if peopl are you know have a weight problem ? so this is new info not someth you'v heard befor ?
2	c: so doe that make sens to you ?
3	c: how would that work for you ?
4	c: you know what would your plan be ? or someth that you would be think about do to keep up with your goal of weight loss ? you'r think about it ?
5	c: anyth els there ?
6	c: what do you think of that ?
7	c: or anyth like that for you ?
8	c: all right all right so kind of take a look at your plan here what do you think ?
9	c: okay ? and would it be help at all to you to practic what you would say to your mom in term of the fri food ?
10	c: all right well anyth els that you'd like to chang on this or bring up or add ?
11	c: to stick with it okay alright so between the the note that i took and the note that you took what do you think about this plan ?
12	c: anyth els that you can think of that would help ?
13	c: that sound like a reason plan to you ?
14	c: that it everyth els is okay with you ?
15	c: okay okay do you think we cover most of that ?
16	c: is there anyth els that i didn't cover ?
17	c: what do you think of those type of product ?
18	c: so what we'll do next then is i will talk with your mom alon get you know her idea and thought and concern show her the plan and see if you know she has ani idea about help you and then we'll come back togeth and discuss it
19	c: what do you think of that ?
20	c: okay anyth els you want to bring up or did we get it all ?
21	c: when when you say more fit what do you mean ?
22	c: okay and i'm you know it sound like you'v alreadi made some chang and i'm wonder what are your thought about kick it up a notch ? of tri to you know keep these chang and mayb ad a littl someth ?
23	c: you think that ad the fruit and veget like you'r do is enough ?
24	c: did i get that right ?
25	c: well it actual i don't know if you you might have heard that breakfast is you know one of the most import meal of the day and it can realli help your bodi start the day off well in term of you know give it the energi it need and not wait too long to eat so that you get extra hungri and overeat when you wait later in the day what do you think of that inform for you ?
26	c: what do you think about do someth like that ?
27	c: so far so good ?
28	c: what would you like to focus our our littl time on here today ?
29	c: ani question about that ?
30	c: so what question do you have about that ?
31	c: so i'll just put that up here okay so what doe that mean to you ?
32	c: is with the chip what are your thought about that ?
33	c: did i get that right ?
34	c: ani question about the videotap or no ?
35	c: doe that make sens ?
36	c: what do you think about that ?
37	c: what do you think of you know feel when you feel that hunger go toward the fruit ? would that work for you or kind of unrealist ?
38	c: would that work better than just the fruit ?
39	c: but and to pay attent the other thing to know is that hunger will go away eventu when you start adjust to a new way of eat so what do you think about some of those idea ?
40	c: is that alright ?
41	c: okay so all that sound pretti okay with you ?
42	c: what els am i miss from what we talk about that you would want to share with your mom ?
43	c: so what question do you have about the videotap or what we'r go to do today ?
44	c: so what do you think of that approach ?
45	c: and three day a week of those should be like more intens like you know you said the treadmil and then the other day you could do a mix of treadmil stretch which would be-actu yoga doe strength and stretch so this kind of give you a nice pictur of what to do at least you know what your long term goal 60 minut a day of or 60 minut three day a week of high intens and then ad some other thing so given you know what do you think of that ?
46	c: so it sound like you have some realli good idea on how to get start and that for you the key is go to be just do someth everyday and mayb not the perfect thing which would be the gym but you know a substitut okay so did i get that right ?
47	c: so what do you think of that ?
48	c: might be more might be realist base on that doe that make sens to you ?
49	c: is there anyth els that you want to bring up relat to this plan ?
50	c: so far so good ?
51	c: fair enough ?
52	c: what do you think about that stuff ?
53	c: how would you feel about kind of write that stuff down ?
54	c: and i just want to doubl check with you that that okay and you'r feel okay with that
55	c: so no problem with all that stuff ?
56	c: it sound a littl crazi doesn't it ?
57	c: c : what do you think of that info ?
58	c: what edit do you want to make to that ? what did i leav out or what do you want to add ?
59	c: write it ?
60	c: anyth though that i miss that you want to bring up here ?
61	c: okay and you'r fine with that
62	c: okay did i get that right ?
63	c: yeah it was 242 and what that mean is that if you were go to look at you know 100 kid your age you'r 13 right ? your bmi which is your weight for height would be up around here actual it mayb even a littl a littl higher and what that mean is that for your height and weight your bmi is much higher than most kid your age is that a surpris not a surpris or ?
64	c: it interest becaus the juic a lot of peopl think that it it better than soft drink but like you alreadi know that juic has a lot of sugar so if basic if you drink a liter or more of these beverag ani of these includ juic that four cup a day if you cut that out you could lose a pound a week so even though it seem like a littl bit of juic a littl but you know not a big deal you drink four cup of ani of these drink a day that a pound so i don't know what do you think about about that inform ?
65	c: so do you have ani question befor we get start ?
66	c: would that be right or is that not quit what it is ?
67	c: are you feel a littl bit nervous right now ?
68	c: no ?
69	c: right ? okay
70	c: so i hear you say that one of the veri first thing that you need to do is chang your eat habit right ?
71	c: right ?
72	c: is that the kind of thing you'r think ? yeah
73	c: is that kind of what happen with you ?
74	c: would it be okay if i have a plan in here that we could look at to kind of guid our idea would it be okay if i take it out for us to use as a guidelin ?
75	c: what about tomorrow ?
76	c: do you mind if i write that down just so that i can becaus i would like to rememb too laugh okay
77	c: alright so this doe that captur what you were think ? is there anyth els that you'd like to add to that ?
78	c: okay so what should i write for it ?
79	c: okay doe that captur what you were say ?
80	c: and is there anyth els you'd like to put down ? no okay
81	c: okay well alright so befor i take you in the other room to meet with the research assist and to do the tast test are there ani question that you have ?
82	c: okay so doe it make you uncomfort to have the camera on ?
83	c: what about ani other topic ?
84	c: now what do you know about food log and how doe this fit with what you know ?
85	c: and then i'll see the two of you togeth and we can talk about the plan that each of you have and how they might work togeth how doe that sound ?
86	c: how would you like to share your plan ?
87	c: and whenev i'm meet with your aunt you have some other stuff that you'r gonna do with our research staff and you might wait in the wait room a littl bit too so so do you have ani question befor we get start ?
88	c: is that true ?
89	c: what doe that mean for you ? do you know ?
90	c: have you seen one of these chart befor ?
91	c: doe that help to put thing in perspect as far as where you stand compar to some other girl your age ?
92	c: so do you mind me ask where you got the inform about that ?
93	c: is that right ?
94	c: do you know what that might be ?
95	c: so do you know where the calori are on the label nutrit label ?
96	c: is that what you were say ?
97	c: okay is it okay if i show it to her ?
98	c: okay so how about this ? i'm gonna stick your plan here for a minut and then i am go to includ your aunt and when i'm finish meet with her i'm go to come get you and then we'll all three meet togeth okay ? befor i do that do you have ani question ?
99	c: okay ?
100	c: okay ?
101	c: doe that sound alright ?
102	c: alrighti so do you have ani question for me befor we get start ?
103	c: is that right ?
104	c: would that be okay ? okay
105	c: is that someth mayb that your guidanc counselor or social worker at school could help you with ?
106	c: is that right ?
107	c: right ?
108	c: have you ever been that activ ?
109	c: and it okay with your famili if you go ? okay
110	c: okay and how often are you say two hour per week or two hour per day ?
111	c: are you think everi day or just certain day ?
112	c: okay doe that make sens ?
113	c: doe that make sens ?
114	c: is that what you said ?
115	c: okay so if school get in your way from practic what you'r realli talk about then is if you have to stay after school ?
116	c: is that someth your friend would do ?
117	c: okay ? but everyth els we would talk about would be privat okay ?
118	c: so do you have ani question befor we get start ?
119	c: that quit a differ from over here isn't it ?
120	c: yeah do you have access to the internet at home ?
121	c: what about a librari ?
122	c: how is that make sens ?
123	c: so what do you make of that info ?
124	c: so do you know what that mean when i say high intens ?
125	c: doe that make sens ?
126	c: and are you familiar with calori burn at all ?
127	c: so what do you what do you think about that info of see where you'r at and kind of think about weight and stuff ?
128	c: particular junk food right ?
129	c: i mean you could still say that you want to stop go to the store and buy junk food becaus you want to lose weight right ?
130	c: so how doe that make sens to you ?
131	c: right ?
132	c: do you have ani question about the thing that we'v talk about or how to do them ?
133	c: 37:17 alright well if you look over your plan again how do you feel about it as far as how satisfi are you with it ?
134	c: do you have question about that ?
135	c: so what do you think of that ?
136	c: so when peopl make a realli import plan like what you'r talk about mayb come up with a workout plan for exampl they often realiz that it might not alway happen but sometim thing are go to get in the way so you mention your mom might ask you to do someth or your brother might come in or someth and then instead of get back on track you stop and you sit down or you lay down and watch tv and if you know that those kind of thing can get in your way and stop you from work out then you can plan ahead and say you know what whenev somebodi stop me or interrupt me what i'm go to say is "would you pleas ask me to do that in about 15 minut i'd like to finish my work out" ? and so it kind of like-and that may not be exact what you decid to do but that an exampl of what peopl sometim do to manag in other word if they can plan ahead then they don't have to tri to think of what to do in a minut they alreadi have in mind what they'r go to be when the problem happen so doe that sound like a reason thing ?
137	c: did you get hat inform from somewher ? are you just guess ?
138	c: what question can i answer for you about the plan or the other thing that we'v talk about ?
139	c: do you have ani question about that ?
140	c: and if you know there are thing that you and i talk about that you want to make sure that we talk about with your mom then i'll just make sure that i get your permiss for that okay ?
141	c: okay some of them are just list of place to go for thing and we can take a look at those in a moment but here anoth handout that i have that some peopl like to use as a way to come up with a plan for chang that they want to make so this sheet right here just describ for you if you were go to do a workout for weight loss that this is how often it recommend that you do it and for how long that high intens do you have a good sens of what high low and medium intens is ? yeah ?
142	c: so you got through all the paperwork all the questionnair and everyth went okay ?
143	c: so just to check in you'r not realli sure about what to do or you'r not realli sure if you know you want to tri to figur out way to stay activ dure the wintertim ?
144	c: you put the same kind of effort into footbal practic ?
145	c: whi is that ?
146	c: what els do you want to add to that ? cough
147	c: sound okay ?
148	c: do you have ani question about that ?
149	c: how doe that sound ?
150	c: can i answer ani question for you befor we get start ?
151	c: is that correct ?
152	c: but if we were to talk about a plan would that be interest to you 10:13 ?
153	c: and did you feel comfort with it ?
154	c: is that what you'r think ?
155	c: okay so what question can i answer for you about your plan or about other thing we'v talk about ?
156	c: okay ? do you have ani question ?
157	c: have you ever seen one of these growth chart befor ?
158	c: so if you had to guess where would you say that your weight fall ?
159	c: do you have question about what that mean or ?
160	c: what would you think about do someth like that ?
161	c: so what type of thing with that ?
162	c: energi and then you felt like your mom could realli help out by exercis with you is there anyth that you want to add or ani question i can answer for you ?
163	c: what do you mean by that ?
164	c: so what do you think of that ?
165	c: so what are you think about that water and the zero calori drink ?
166	c: and it okay or you'r not so sure ?
167	c: are there other reason that i miss or is that bout it ?
168	c: it kind of keep go on this page what do you see on here that might be help ?
169	c: fair enough ?
170	c: what do you think about hear someth about that ?
