343	c: to get to get to this point and how do you feel about your ?
112	t: it should be lower that's what i think
331	c: well what types of things have you thought ?
112	t: probably eating healthier because i'm very active
333	c: what kind of stuff tell me a little more about that
331	c: what's going on with ?
106	t: yeah by not eating them especially like every day having maybe a sucker if that and then having an apple and staying away from red meats and stuff like that
112	t: i would probably change and probably make it my effort to do everything great
331	c: tell me a little bit more what you mean by doing it right
112	t: like maybe instead of drinking pop now probably dr pepper or something i never really drink water or maybe even tea like a green tea or something like that
331	c: why would you want to do some of those ?
112	t: maybe to lose weight make my appearance better mm-hmm and to make a healthier body choices instead of when you get older have diabetes and things and high blood pressure yes because on my dad's side high blood pressure runs and i'm liable to get it and my mom's side diabetes
106	t: maybe instead of going for the pop i can go for a glass of ice water or maybe green tea
331	c: you're pretty smart that you know that those have extra calories in them hmm where did you learn about all that ? awesome all right so by you know cutting out some of those calories well why why would you want to you know
344	c: now we get to a little bit of the tough part where you really got to think like what are some things that could get in the way okay so you've come up with some real things anything else that might get in the ?
333	c: well what could you do if a new drink comes out and you're really working on drinking the water
106	t: maybe find a new flavor of water they sell like a watermelon flavor or something like that mm-hmm or for this part maybe go for a glass of ice water start drinking water more trying to get used to the flavor and everything
331	c: and what is something that she could do to help you reach your goal of drinking more ?
112	t: maybe not buying much pop in the house or maybe not buying so much sugar and stuff like that
331	c: so what kinds of things in the house would be a good ?
112	t: maybe flavored water gatorade crystal light and maybe stuff like is ginger ale ?
331	c: all right give me what you got
112	t: i like learning so you could maybe look at the labels before you just pick them up and buy it yeah
331	c: and what would you do you think on there if you were going to pick up the labels would you be looking ? well on a like a scale of one to ten thinking about all that stuff if one is not at all confident and ten is very confident how confident would you say that you are that you'd be able
112	t: an eight
331	c: so tell me why you're an eight and say not like a six
106	t: because i know i drink a lot of water already but i also have craving soda pop and stuff like that but i know i can cut that out by drinking something flavorful like flavored water yeah
306	c: what do you think of those types of ?
112	t: i would love diet iced tea because it's not like drinking tea that yeah
331	c: so what would it take to bump you up a little higher like two a ?
112	t: maybe have it not be around me so much yeah that would probably bump me up to a ten
