301	c: miss ester all right so you made it here and you had a chance to answer a lot of questionnaires and write down all that kind of stuff
309	c: so thanks for taking care of all those things
117	t: you're welcome
343	c: and now kind of you know how do you feel about your ?
112	t: bad because like i can fit into the pretty clothes that i want and that i can get into bathing suits that i like because of my weight and i feel like a little bit embarrassed
307	c: so it's tough sometimes to think about your weight
311	c: and you'd like to lose some weight so you could fit into cuter cuter clothing
112	t: yeah i want to be skinny
311	c: so you have some ideas in your mind on what you'd like to look like and it's you know it's pretty important to you to to get your size down a bit
112	t: yeah like i'm in high school i don want nobody to tease me because like 0:03:15 you know
307	c: yeah that might hurt
311	c: you're starting a new school and you want it to go well well what are some ways that you've heard that you know people go about losing some ?
343	c: well what are some ways that you've heard that you know people go about losing some ?
116	t: like eating healthy they go to the gym and they like i watched this commercial they like eat these smoothies but my mom won get them all the time it's like to help you control your hunger like like if you were hungry they wouldn make you that hungry a lot it would make you want to eat less and then my mom said she was going to bring me here to talk about what some ways to lose a lot of weight
311	c: okay so you guys actually have talked about it a little bit at home losing weight and you're kind of familiar with some of the things that people do in terms of changing the way that they're eating and and getting more exercise to to lose weight
308	c: and you showed up you came here kind of ready to to talk about your weight not everybody comes in with that kind of an attitud
305	c: so you know thinking about you know that you know that it takes you know nutrition changes and some activity changes you know which one would you like to focus on in our time ?
119	t: like like what you mean like talking about my ? like how to ?
329	c: yeah so i wasn really clear with my question
305	c: and i guess yeah like how to how ?
309	c: because you're right in that it takes nutrition and activity some changes there
302	c: and sometimes people like to focus on nutrition or sometimes they like to focus on exercise or sometimes they focus on both
305	c: what would you like to ?
112	t: i would like to focus on on nutrition and like exercise because like i mean it take like for me to lose some pounds
311	c: so you're interested in both nutrition and activity and you know how long it would take to see some results from doing ?
117	t: mm-hmm yeah
302	c: well i have some information on the amount of time you want to talk more about ? or would you like to go more into like you know different ways you can make eating changes maybe or exercise ?
112	t: exercise ideas
331	c: going for the ?
117	t: mm-hmm
333	c: alright so if we wanted to kind of look at exercise you know what kinds of things would you see yourself doing if you decided to start exercising on a regular ?
112	t: i would like start walking and then like ride my bike is that exercising i would like start doing some sit ups and then like get i know some my dad's got some like arm things so you can do like the inaudible i would start doing that and then i would like jog go to the park and like jog five miles
308	c: so already you have like these great ideas for how you can get more activity and get more exercise in your day a lot of them actually !
311	c: and you know you're already thinking like okay like i have a bike i can ride it i got you know different arm things you can have that your daddy has and and other things like that
309	c: yeah ! cool you're making my job easy here alright
302	c: so you know would it be helpful you know for you because-let me start over i guess sometimes when people meet with me they'll say you know this is how many days of the week that i might like to do it maybe i might like to do like one day a week maybe i might like to do exercise three days a week or something like that for a certain amount of time and we we talk a little bit more about that
305	c: would that be helpful for ?
118	t: no inaudible
305	c: you're not really sure and i mean maybe it's good that you're being honest because that stuff doesn work for everybody and this is really about what will work for you yeah so putting it out there on kind of a schedule might not be very helpful for you so that's not really your thing so what would be helpful to get you to you know think about doing more exercise or do more exercise during the ?
112	t: start eating healthy like like stop eating like after late like past nine and like start eating fruits and grapes oranges apples and just start doing some sit ups at night sometimes
311	c: so you're kind of really going with some of the nutrition stuff too so you're thinking exercise and and ways to eat healthier for your weight
117	t: yeah
305	c: alright well which one would you want to focus ?
112	t: nutrition
311	c: yeah so kind of leave leave the activity stuff and talk more about the food stuff alright well if you were going to eat healthier and you're coming up with ideas it sounds like for you know fruits and not snacking as late at night and kind of watching your snacking
333	c: you know what other ideas do you ?
106	t: that's pretty much it and like sometimes i get hungry at night and i'm trying to stop myself from going to the kitchen like and getting me like a little like junk food now that i've been trying to like eat grapes like at night if i'm hungry and like i get my feeling at night but i try to control myself so i'm not going and eating junk food
313	c: alright so you're already making kind of the choices or noticing when you're feeling hungry but it might just be like you're bored or something and so you're you're making healthier choices or trying to cut down on your snacking
309	c: that's great good
333	c: and you know when you get hungry at night you know how do you make other ? like how does that ?
119	t: when i like try to control ?
330	c: mm-hmm
106	t: like i'll get me some grapes and then i start eating that will calm me down a little bit and then like i when i lay down then i still be feeling hungry then i just get some more fruit and eating it and then i don be hungry no more
309	c: that's good
313	c: so when you do have the fruit you'll have enough that it does make you feel ?
117	t: yeah
308	c: alright great that's pretty impressive that you kind of found a plan that you're going to eat healthier and then you put it into action and it's ?
302	c: well a lot of times when i meet with people they will kind of put together a little bit of a plan on what they would like to work on and sometimes it's that they want to keep doing what they're already doing because it's working well for them and sometimes it's that they want to work you know do a couple more thin
305	c: t: so you know what would you like to kind of plan on for your ?
119	t: like which like which you mean like how to control it ?
329	c: yeah i'm not being very good at asking the questions today inaudible i'm sorry about that
333	c: so i think that would just be yeah like how how would you like to work on losing ?
106	t: like i would like get up and like try to walk around a little bit ride my bike and for breakfast start eating like cereal and-because i be skipping meals well i don be eating the cereals and i be skipping meals and like just wake up and eat cereal then like later on eat some more fruit drink some healthy smoothie shakes
308	c: so you have so many ideas so many ideas you're just really like full of like okay you know this is how you know so many things that people do when they're really trying to to lose weight
302	c: and you know when i when i sometimes you know people will find that picking just one small thing to work on and start kind of that small is helpful for them to really work on sticking to it
305	c: how would something like that work for ? just picking one small thing to focus on
117	t: about not for sure
325	c: so you have so many ideas you're just not really sure which one you want to start with
115	t: yeah i got like so these ideas in my head it's too hard to focus on one
305	c: hmm well if you know if you were to to think about which one you wanted to focus on would it be more a nutrition or more an activity ?
112	t: nutrition
328	c: nutrition kind of always going back to that nutrition one for for things alright alright inaudible let's see so some of the things that you mentioned for nutrition would be to you know work on that the healthy snacking at night time another one you mentioned was breakfast and you also mentioned you know kind of having fruits
331	c: what ?
117	t: i think that's it
329	c: yeah so i kind of i got i think i got the main ones that you said
308	c: the main really you know good good ones for weight loss
305	c: so if you were going to pick one of those to focus on which one would you think you'd want to ?
106	t: i think i would focus on nutrition like try to help myself like stop eating junk food and try to work on like eating fruit and by the time like i go to school then i'd like lose a little bit of pounds and yeah
313	c: yeah you're really linking that whole idea of cutting back on what you're eating now and then over time you'll see some changes in your weight that's really what you're going for you want to lose some weight before school starts
308	c: and really smart that you're not saying like "i'm just going to cut back and i'm not going to eat" and you know because you know you're not kind of thinking with the unhealthy way you're thinking the healthy way "and i'll i'll have fruit instead you know i'll still give my body the healthy energy it needs but i'll put fruit in there" again you got you got some smart stuff in here ?
331	c: alright so if you were going to have fruit instead of a snack you know other other foods like chips or cookies or anything like that why would you do something like ? like what would be the most important reason to really stick with having the ?
120	t: i'm sorry can you repeat the ?
331	c: mm-hmm yeah if you were going to have fruit instead of another snack what would be the reason to do ? like why would you want to do ? you know if you walk into the kitchen and there are some chips and some cookies on the counter and then there's some fruit what kind of ?
112	t: like grapes
311	c: grapes
112	t: oranges and apples
331	c: mm-hmm yeah the grapes and oranges and apples are sitting there what why would you pick
119	t: the ?
330	c: yeah
112	t: because like if i keep eating more junk food it's just going to keep on just adding more pounds to my body weight and then if i eat fruit and i start walking riding my bike and exercising and like in september i'm going to like might see some changes about my stomach like it's going down if i just keep eating more junk food just going to be making me bigger and bigger and then that's not healthy it's going to be making me tired a lot and don make me want to do no sports if i keep eating the junk food
311	c: okay alright so the junk food kind of keeps you growing weight that you don want it makes you tired and the fruit really gets you towards your goal of being healthier and more energy to do the bike riding and gets you ready for school in ?
309	c: okay good
332	c: wow so so then you're kind of sitting there looking at the stuff and even though in your head you're saying "i really want to have some fruit" what are some things that might might happen that would have you choose the junk food instead like the cookies or the ? what could ?
106	t: like the like if i would choose that like unless that we don like have enough food because usually i go in there and like see what do we ? watermelons and fruit and all that stuff but if we don have it then like i eat like one junk food and then i stop for a minute and like some chips and things some chips and then i stop eating for the whole day because i really like to eat fruit a lot
313	c: so in reality i mean if you can eat the fruit if it's not there yeah so you're working on if the fruit's not there really watching your portions with the other stuff
106	t: i would first i would try not to grab the junk food but if i'm like really really hungry then i might like eat a bag of chips and then i'd just stop from there inaudible
313	c: alright so you kind of have a plan just in case there's junk food that you'll watch how much you're eating of it yeah okay alright
333	c: and and so then if there's no fruit well what are some ways to make sure that there's fruit in the ?
106	t: i would like tell my parents like to buy some from the grocery store or i would like tell them or i'd tell them that before the fruit get ran out like if we only have a little bit left i'd say "oh we need more fruit" and they like buy some like right away if i
308	c: man you're even going to give yourself a little extra days just so that you don realize you don have any left and then you have to ?
106	t: yeah if i'm running out
309	c: wow
106	t: i'll tell them like i'm running out of fruit
313	c: 309you're you you know feel pretty comfortable asking your family to you know have fruit in the house
112	t: my family know that i like fruit a lot
311	c: cool so they're willing to help out and get keep fruit in there they're like sure go go grab some fruit yeah inaudible so you're really saying like one thing you could do is talk to your family a little bit more about it
301	c: so we actually will have some time to you know when your mom comes back in at the end what do you think about talking to her about it ?
106	t: like i want to tell her like "mom can you buy us like more fruit in the ? and like like more oranges and grapes for me to eat" and i would tell her i'm going to cut back on the junk food and like at night i'm going to tell her that at nighttime sometimes i feel like i want to grab something to eat but i'll just grab some grapes instead and it don make me hungry no more
313	c: alright so you feel pretty you know it's easy to talk to her about that kind of a thing and you know you want to share with her your plan about the fruit and even you know having it as snacks and especially at nighttime when you're looking for something to eat
117	t: mm-hmm
301	c: well cool well alright well if that sounds okay with you then we can definitely you know talk to her about it when when we're together and you know i also usually kind of share some information like about this fruit when she she and i talk how would you like me to to do ?
119	t: like i want to like tell her inaudible and
301	c: alright so wait wait until you're in here and you guys can talk about it because you know what you want to say okay yeah absolutely alright cool well if it's alright with you then i'll have you switch places with your mom
