345	c: i'm katie how are ?
117	t: i'm good
301	c: good alright so thanks for waiting around for me and getting all those the paperwork done and everything i just want to let you know that we're actually going to start the time now where they turn the cameras on and it sounds like you're you know it seems like you're okay with that you remember reading about it
117	t: mm-hmm
305	c: and i'm not here to tell you what to do i don know if you've met with people before to talk about those things but that really isn always helpful to people to tell them what to do so it's just i'm really here to see what things i might be able to help with if anything and i'll meet with you and then your mom and you know then to work on whe you know have certain ?
324	c: so pretty boring stuff so ?
343	c: laughs well when you come and kind of talk to somebody about this you know thing with nutrition and activity i don know if you have certain thoughts like you know how do you feel about your ?
109	t: i think well i was feeling bad but i found out that it's these diseases that i just found out i had that made me gain the weight
311	c: so you found out you have some stuff related to weight
109	t: i just found out i had diabetes last year and now they said i got poly or something with my ovaries
312	c: okay and you're feeling more relieved that it's the disease's fault you're gaining weight
109	t: i didn never used to understand why because i didn never eat that much or nothing
312	c: so it kind of gave you a little bit of an answer as to what might be going on and since you have that answer it's kind of changed the way that you think about the weight
109	t: nothing much i just never know how it got there
307	c: so you you have an idea now of like how it got there and you're dealing with stuff like the polycystic ovarian syndrome and and the diabetes and it takes a lot of effort to to have to handle those ?
333	c: so when you you know think about the stuff that's going on with your body and then also the your weight you know what stuff do you want to do about ?
106	t: well i've been trying to lose weight but it really never go anywhere
313	c: so you've been making an effort to do some changes but it's not really happening
310	c: and so you're almost kind of this idea of do i keep trying or you know do i kind of push it to the next level or do i just kind of give up because there's nothing i can ?
112	t: somewhere in the middle
311	c: so you're kind of wondering you know what are some things that you can do ?
333	c: you're still feeling that this is something you want to you want to work on you do want to lose weight well what kinds of things have you been ?
106	t: like i walk around in the mall and stuff and then i run play with my little nephew and stuff and do basketball
313	c: so you've found ways to be active yeah and you're doing that on a a regular basis
343	c: well tell me a little bit more about that
106	t: i don really go to the mall that much i see my nephew and everybody every day
313	c: alright so there are some things that you don you know do as often because you can get there but other things that you're doing every day
310	c: and you know it sounds like you're really familiar with the fact that in order to to lose weight it is something that you have to do every day and it kind of stays with you and you've got to work on it on a regular basis
308	c: not everybody kind of sees that you know they're they're not always ready to kind of go every day and do something towards their weight yeah
312	c: you haven really mentioned a lot about the eating side of things other than when you first came in you said you noticed that you don really eat a lot so you didn know where the weight was coming from
112	t: no i can eat a lot of the regular stuff because my blood sugar go up
307	c: so it's pretty frustrating
109	t: and i have to eat when i'm not hungry to get my blood sugar back up
307	c: so there's a lot that of effort that goes into also managing your blood sugar and finding the right stuff the types of foods to eat and it's pretty tiring to have to do that every day now
330	c: well what types of things would be helpful to you in order to to see about you know whether-well let me let me start over here
325	c: you kind of mentioned you're in the middle with with wanting to think about losing weight you know you haven really kind of said no i'm not even going to do it anymore but at the same time you're not really sure what you want to do or or how to do it
112	t: i know i want to lose weight i just don i inaudible go into getting another gym membership
311	c: so you're going back activity you know getting another gym membership is kind of a a fun way for you to work on the weight loss and that's something you've been thinking about for a little ?
331	c: well what about the the gym membership that makes you want to you know go that ?
112	t: because i don like going outside and exercising i'd rather go to the gym
311	c: alright so you you know you've found a way that it's kind of fun for you to do exercise if you're at the gym okay you know i have a little information about kind of physical activity and the amount that it's recommended that people do would you want to hear any of ?
302	c:
117	t: mm-hmm
305	c: alright so you know if it's alright with you i'll just go ahead and kind of touch on a couple things that are on here and if it gets boring or it's stuff you've already heard of just say "hey katie you know i know this stuff" we don have to talk about it ? we'll talk about something else
302	c: but this really breaks down this idea that for for everyone especially for people that are trying to lose weight the goal is to do 60 minutes of activity every day and for a lot of people it can be broken down into things like doing aerobic activities strength activities and stretching and some people start at smaller amounts than 60 every day and work up to it you know to get to that goal like maybe ten minutes and other people will do stuff like every other day or they'll pick a couple days of the week to do things
305	c: how does that kind of fit into what you're doing right now or what your idea for your activity goals for losing ?
311	c: so in the past you've done some stuff with the aerobics
109	t: nothing was changing
307	c: and you didn see any results and it was really frustrating
312	c: so since you didn really see any results kind of stopped doing that
331	c: well what is it that you would want to see happening during the ?
109	t: i don think i'm going to try again to because nothing no pounds was going away it just staying the same
310	c: so with the activity you were able to keep your weight the same as opposed to to gaining more weight and that was a little bit different because you weren you weren seeing you weren losing weight but you also weren gaining weight when you were doing the activity
306	c: it sounds a little crazy doesn ?
311	c: so you did some of the aerobic stuff in the past and you're talking about maybe kind of going to a gym again
331	c: what type of you know why would you want to go to to go to a gym ?
112	t: like i was going there at first and then didn have a ride i like to do gym
311	c: alright so it was definitely something that you liked
331	c: what did you like about ?
112	t: because they have the machines there
311	c: and you could kind of get on a machine and it was you didn have to be outside alright so there were some good things for you for going to the gym
330	c: alright so maybe we can kind of come back to that when we you know a little bit later
302	c: you know the whole idea of going to a gym if that's okay another thing that i kind of wanted to point out on here is this idea that people who are doing a lot of things like watching a lot of tv or being on the computer a lot often times aren being active you know because you're sitting there and watching those and so people find that they have a better time or they they're able to lose weight by cutting you know cutting down on some of the time that they spend watching tv or being on the computer
306	c: c : what do you think of that ?
117	t: hmm i don know
305	c: i mean you're not really sure how that that would work for you in terms of losing weight well what else on here grabs your ? is this one of the boring parts where you want to say "katie i'm done with this one let's talk about something ? because this is you know this is really kind of what would you like to talk about today while we're in here so if you're done talking about this you can just let me ?
324	c: so you're not saying anything kind of makes me think that you're not really wanting to talk about that
305	c: so if i put it away that would be okay with ? okay alright
331	c: now tell me so i mean on a scale of one to like we can say like zero to ten where zero would be not at all important and ten would be very very important how important is it for you to to lose ?
112	t: a ten
311	c: a ten it's very important
331	c: you know what makes you say that ten instead of like a i don know like a seven or an eight or something like ?
112	t: because i don like my weight
311	c: you're not happy with where you're at right now
331	c: what about your weight makes you not ?
112	t: because i don i'm too i got too much weight to be my age
307	c: and that makes you pretty sad
331	c: well what else makes it really ?
311	c: so you'd be able to stop taking
112	t: just take the pills
311	c: and that would be something that would make it a lot easier for you so so reasons you know related to your health along with just kind of the way that you feel when you're around people
331	c: well you know tell me how you know how confident are ? again if we think about those same numbers again like zero to ten where zero would be like not at all confident and ten would be very confident that you can find something either some kind of activity or some kind of eating thing to do on a regular basis to help lose ?
112	t: five
311	c: five
331	c: so you're in the confident range ?
331	c: hmm alright and what makes you that five instead of a lower ?
112	t: because i know my diet already under control because it's i have to have it
311	c: mm-hmm alright so the diet side of things you really have to do because of diabetes so you feel good that you can stick with that
117	t: mm-hmm
331	c: what would it take to bump you up to a higher ?
117	t: i don know
112	t: probably if i lose some
311	c: so if you saw some results it would kind of get you going yeah
333	c: well tell me about some time in your past when you did some things that either stopped you from gaining weight or helped you lose ?
109	t: i didn do i don know because when i was younger i didn really used to like i didn really used to know how much i weighed inaudible i would just talk to my mom
328	c: okay so this wasn something that people would talk to you about when you were younger it's kind of a new thing that you're worrying about your weight trying to lose weight alright and if you saw some weight stuff you might you know if you saw some of the weight come off you'd be able to kind of keep up with those things alright well let me see if i kind of have have things straight so far you you're not very happy with your weight right now and you'd like to lose some because it would number one kind of make you feel better when you were out with other people your age and then also because it would help you to to not have to take shots anymore and that's something that's very important for you to do you're a ten and you know at the same time you're really you're feeling like the food stuff is something that you have to deal with a lot to help manage your blood sugars and you're mentioning activity as something like joining the gym that would be a helpful way for you to to work on getting your your weight loss down you know to increase your weight ?
306	c: what edits do you want to make to ? what did i leave out or what do you want to ?
323	c: i got it ?
302	c: okay alright so what do you want to you know where do you want to go from ? some people that i work with when we get to this point will say you know "i don want to work on anything it was really nice to come in and talk to you but this wasn really helpful for me and i'm i just i want to leave you know the room" and other people will say like you know ? i really want to make a plan i want to think about what i can do maybe starting like next week or even starting like tomorrow and i want to just kind of see if i can put it down on paper because that will be helpful for ?
305	c: you know where do you fall with ?
112	t: probably make the plan
305	c: the plan is something for that will be good for you
302	c: well well tell me you've you know talked a lot about you know the activity side of things being where you would like to focus your energy because a lot with the eating is something that you're already working on so i'm going to kind of say like what your your plan is and you know just just to kind of let you know when i work with people a lot of times the most specific that they can get about the plan like kind of making like really small little things that they can start with often times is is helpful because then they will you know see little they won they'll be able to kind of reach those easier but that doesn always work for everybody
305	c: so thinking about that stuff and thinking about you know maybe starting small what what would your plan be for ?
112	t: i could probably start walking my dog every day
313	c: walking the dog every day oh that came to you pretty easily hmm
331	c: now where'd you get that ?
112	t: because my mom tells me every day
311	c: okay so that's something your mom has mentioned to you and so it's something that you can kind of do and you're thinking that that might be a good way to start hmm
331	c: well why why do you want to do ? i mean this is an idea from your mom but you you brought it out here on the table when you could have picked anything else that was out there so what makes this something that you want to ?
112	t: for because i mean me and the dog will get exercise
311	c: alright so you're thinking out for your new dog
345	c: what's your dog's ?
120	t: raven
327	c: raven too alright well what are what are some things that could get in the way of you taking raven out for a ?
311	c: so that you and raven can get exercise
344	c: well what are what are some things that could get in the way of you taking raven out for a ?
109	t: the other dogs on the block
330	c: hmm okay
344	c: and what ? being mean and ã¢â‚¬â¦
112	t: probably nothing else
312	c: okay so it's not really a matter of that you know it sounds like it's not really a matter of you finding the time or getting out there but it's these other dogs that that might get in the way of going
106	t: i just i just walk the other the other way
309	c: oh so you're already kind of coming up with a solution
311	c: so one of the things you could do is is walk the other way
333	c: what else could you ?
117	t: i don know exactly that
313	c: alright so this you know you're no problem walking the other way so you could avoid those dogs alright
333	c: so what's the first thing that you can do in order to reach your goal of getting out with raven every day to ?
112	t: i can just go laughter
313	c: just do ? alright so just go alright
331	c: and what is something that's that's helpful to help you remember to go
112	t: like i put the alarm on my on my phone
305	c: so you're really kind of thinking about how you can you know stay up with that and i just want to check in with you because i mean you don have to be you know saying this stuff just for me like this is really you know kind of your plan so if that idea isn something you want to do you don have to do it i don have to write it down but if you want me to write it down i can too
306	c: write ?
328	c: alright so you've got this great idea to kind of walk the dog every day both of you guys are getting some good exercise you're watching out for the other dogs by going the other way and kind of helping yourself to remember
331	c: but what's something that your mom could do to help you reach your ?
117	t: hmm
307	c: this one is a little tougher yeah
112	t: i guess if i forget she can remind me
311	c: okay so you'd be okay with her kind of saying "hey go walk the dog"
109	t: no i think that's why i didn walk the dog because she'd tell me and then i i don know
312	c: she's kind of bugging you about it and it makes you not want to do it yeah so yeah you know realistically you don want people bugging you and actually it actually makes you not do ?
331	c: so what was what would be something that she could do in order to not keep you from your ?
112	t: don say nothing about it laughs
311	c: oh kind of leave you alone and let you get it in on your own okay hmm i see so in fact that her not saying anything would help you do it on your own because you got your watch set and all that stuff alright
331	c: so what do you think about this ?
112	t: it's it's good
305	c: yeah it's good i mean it's not you know not my plan i mean it's your plan so you're thinking that it's a good plan what makes it a good plan for ?
106	t: because it's exercise and then i will start going to the gym
328	c: okay so this is kind of a way for you to get your exercise going and then if you want to do other things when you're ready like go to the gym that's there too okay cool so we had our time kind of here today to talk a little bit about you know where you're at with your weight and and how it's kind of pretty scary and frustrating to have to take the shots and if you're able to lose weight and see weight results that would be really helpful for you and we put together this sweet plan to to work on getting the activity in every day since the food stuff you deal with a lot to help manage your blood sugars
301	c: and how would you like me to share this with your ?
112	t: you can just show her
311	c: just just show her alright so you don you're fine with kind of we can kind of talk about it in that way alright and when we come back together and you know kind of the three of us sit down as we go how would you you know want to share that with ? you know what would you ? if you were like alright mom this is my plan this is what i'm going to do
302	c: and when we come back together and you know kind of the three of us sit down as we go how would you you know want to share that with ? you know what would you ? if you were like alright mom this is my plan this is what i'm going to do
106	t: hmm tell her i'll walk the dog but don tell me to
311	c: alright so you kind of you don mind really saying that to her and you're going to be
301	c: alright cool well then i'm going to have you guys go ahead and switch places
306	c: anything though that i missed that you want to bring up ?
117	t: no
309	c: alright so thanks for coming in today and getting with all the paperwork and everything
