301	c: i'm going to be talking with you for a few minutes this is just to remind you this is the part where we turn on the cameras ? and mostly it's just to watch me so laughs also i wanted to let you know that anything you say in here is confidential unless you let me know that you're going to hurt yourself or somebody else or if you tell me about a child or a an elderly person who's in trouble ? okay so i want you to be able to feel comfortable talking with me the other thing too to keep in mind is that you may have talked with other people before but the talking that you do with me will be a little bit different i'm not going to tell you what to do because it turns out that doesn work so well when you boss people around they don like it but i am going to help you figure out what you'd like to do ? okay
306	c: so do you have any questions before we get ?
117	t: no
343	c: okay so well let's jump in and and tell me you know what brought you in ?
117	t: i don know
307	c: you don know somebody just told you to show up ? okay
302	c: well i know that this is a weight loss project so that's the main topic for our conversation is to talk about weight loss
343	c: what do you think about your ?
112	t: that it's not healthy
311	c: that it's not healthy
331	c: what about it do you think is not ?
112	t: i need to eat right and do more activities
329	c: mm-hmm are you saying that i just want to clarify because i didn quite understand the first thing you said
311	c: you said that you need to eat right and do healthy activities is that what you ?
308	c: okay those are some good ideas
331	c: have you been thinking about those for a ? yeah can you tell me a little more about ?
117	t: i don know
327	c: you don know
311	c: okay well so let's return to this to the to the topic of weight for a moment you said that one of the things that you think that you need to do is to eat right and to do some healthy activities
308	c: that's a really great place to start
333	c: you know when you think about yourself doing that what do you picture yourself ? or have you maybe started ?
120	t: started are you talking about like joining ?
345	c: say that ?
120	t: are you talking about joining something like doing the
302	c: that's one thing that sometimes people do is they join a group or
112	t: i want to join a basketball team
333	c: you ? what do you what do you picture yourself doing on the basketball ?
117	t: inaudible and i don know
331	c: yeah well do you have a position you would like to ? no or you just like the idea of ?
112	t: i'm just like talking about sports i like okay basketball uh-huh and cheerleading
311	c: okay so you're picturing yourself joining some pretty active sports
117	t: yes
308	c: mm-hmm those are really great ideas if you were thinking about ways to exercise either of those really would be good ways to get in a lot of exercise so
333	c: is there anything that you've started doing ? no so you have some ?
117	t: no
311	c: well so you mentioned a couple minutes ago that you have another idea and that is that maybe you need to eat healthier
331	c: can you tell me a little bit about what that means to ? like the idea of eating healthy what would that look ?
112	t: eating healthy means to me that i need to stay on like diets like eat celery and not to eat junk food and just eat rice stuff
311	c: okay so when you think about eating healthier you think about eating things like salad that are healthier foods but you also think on the other side of getting rid of some unhealthy foods so you see that there are two parts to changing eating
343	c: what other what other thoughts do you ?
117	t: none
327	c: none okay
331	c: well tell me a little bit about if you would how would it be how would life be different for you if you lost some ?
112	t: it would be great
112	t: i'd be able to do stuff like i would be able to do stuff like i would be able to do stuff like join activities and do a lot of stuff mm-hmm help people and do stuff for myself that's it
311	c: okay so in your mind if if your weight changed then you'd be able to do more things that you could enjoy and you would also be able to help some other people
309	c: those sound like pretty good goals
344	c: is it what what keeps you from doing that right ?
329	c: i'm trying to understand how how it's different right now
120	t: keep me from-can you repeat ?
311	c: sure yep so a minute ago you said if you lost weight then you'd be able to do other things that you enjoy and you'd be able to help other people
331	c: and so how would that be different from right ? like right now are you able to do things that you enjoy and are you able to help other ?
117	t: no
327	c: no
112	t: because of my weight and i won be able to to do stuff sometimes
329	c: okay but help me understand that a little bit more
344	c: is it is it hard for ? in what ?
109	t: it's not really hard for me it's not really hard for me i just don just don like to i just don like to ã¢â‚¬â¦ i don know i'm like inaudible
326	c: it's hard to put into words so right now you were starting to explain
324	c: right now it's not so much that it's hard for you it almost sounds like you're like you feel uncomfortable
306	c: would that be right or is that not quite what it ?
117	t: i don know
306	c: are you feeling a little bit nervous right ?
307	c: ? i'm sorry if there's something that i'm doing that's making you nervous
306	c: ?
109	t: i'm kind of shy
326	c: oh you're shy
329	c: i used to be really shy too
302	c: well if it makes you to feel-if it helps you to feel more comfortable there are no right or wrong answers the reason that we're talking today is for me to just help you think through some of these things because it can be difficult to think through them and so i have some experience thinking through what changes people want to make and so some of the questions that i'm asking you are not for me to judge what you're saying or anything it's for it's to help you start organizing your thoughts in a way that you can say "oh okay so if i need to eat healthier or if i feel like i want to do some exercises" eventually i want to help you get to a plan for how you can do that ? and so if you just say what comes to mind that's fine it doesn have to be a great answer it doesn have to be a long one it's whatever's in your own head is fine ?
328	c: okay so so let's see so a moment ago we were talking about what makes it tough for you to do some of the things you'd really like to do right now and you were saying that it's it's not that it's difficult and it's not that it's uncomfortable
116	t: my my i would like to play basketball but i can play basketball because i'm not a very good fast runner that's why i'm not good that's why i want to lose weight because i want to be able to run fast and stay healthy mm-hmm be able to do what i'm supposed to do and that's it
311	c: okay so so if you lost weight then what you're saying is that you'd be able to to be more skilled in some of the areas you want to be skilled in like you could run faster which means that you'd be able to enjoy playing basketball more
306	c: ? okay
311	c: and you said you'd do some of the other things that you'd like to do
112	t: cheerlead mm-hmm and soccer mm-hmm and that's that's it
309	c: okay so earlier you said that some of these wonderful ideas that you have the the cheerleading and soccer now that you've mentioned and basketball those are things that you'd like to do you haven started doing them yet
117	t: mm-hmm
333	c: what do you think it would take for you to be able to get to the point where you're able to do those ?
112	t: get get on the right shape get on the right track okay and just stay focused not worry about nothing else just on yourself that's it
305	c: okay so it sounds like you want to get a plan in your head and find a way to stick to it so that you can get from right now today to in the future feeling like "hey i've done the things i wanted to do i've made it to the point where i can comfortably play basketball and do cheerleading" and in a way it seems like you've got this idea that it's like a step by step process yeah yeah okay so if you had to think about that step by step process what do you think the first step might ?
112	t: the first step might be is just to eat healthy and like salad drink milk and inaudible kind of stuff stop going out to fast food restaurants and inaudible a healthy restaurant like i don know a healthy restaurant that's it
306	c: so i hear you saying that one of the very first things that you need to do is change your eating habits ?
117	t: yes
308	c: and again you've got really great ideas i have to tell you you seem to know a number of things that it would take
328	c: like you mentioned eating salads and drinking milk like you mentioned before you had said the junk food and now you also mentioned less going to fast food restaurants and if you're going to go to a restaurant go to one that has healthy food choices
306	c: ?
308	c: those are awesome ideas
331	c: what do you think it might take to be able to do those ?
112	t: just start doing it and keep doing it and doing it mm-hmm and then you'll get used to it
310	c: mm-hmm well some of those things you it sounds like you might need some help with because you're a kid and you're not the one that makes some of the choices sometimes you might need some help from somebody
117	t: yeah
331	c: who would you need help ?
112	t: my mom and probably my sisters and my nephew
309	c: okay wow you've got a bunch of people that could help you your mom and your sisters and nephew
331	c: what do you think they could do for ?
112	t: tell me to tell me to keep doing the right thing and stop doing the wrong thing okay and you will get better at it as long as you keep trying
311	c: mm-hmm so you'd like to hear from them some encouraging words some support saying inaudible you can do this
306	c: is that the kind of thing you're ? yeah
308	c: so right now you have two really great ideas on the table
328	c: you've mentioned exercise or some activity as one way of losing of losing weight you've also mentioned changes to your eating habits as a first step
305	c: so if you and i are going to use our time to help you come up with some ideas on what what you could do when you leave today which of those would you really like to focus ?
106	t: eating right and starting activities outside like walk and play okay and that's it
309	c: wow
333	c: so you have some ideas which you could start using you could start doing these ?
112	t: now
308	c: now that would be great
305	c: what made you say ?
117	t: i don know
302	c: you don know sometimes people get to a point where they're thinking hey wait a minute i don have to wait to do this stuff i could just play outside today
306	c: is that kind of what happened with ?
308	c: yeah so at this point you have some really great ideas
311	c: you've you've picked a couple of things that you feel like you could do right now
302	c: if i wanted to help you come up with a plan that you could leave with today and start doing we could do that a couple different ways
305	c: is that something that you're interested in doing is coming up with a ?
117	t: i guess
324	c: yeah you sound like you're kind of a little on the fence about that one
343	c: what do you think that what did you think when i said come up with a ? what did that make you think ?
119	t: i don thinking about that we had i had to like make come up with a plan where i was where i want to play inaudible or play or just i mean eat right or that's come up with a plan and ã¢â‚¬â¦
309	c: i think you're on the right track
302	c: so part of what we've already done is we've already talked through most of a plan i don know if you were realizing that we were doing that but we've already talked through almost an entire plan and so some people decide that when they're ready to make a change now like you said they talk about it and they just put some ideas in their head so that they can say okay now i know when i leave here today here's what i'm going to do first and here's the kind of help i need other people say you know that's that's really a great idea and i'd like to write it down so that in case i forget what to do or i get off track i can just look at it again and get back on track again
305	c: which do you think would work better for ? thinking and talking about it or writing it ?
112	t: thinking and talking about it
302	c: okay alright so so if we were going to come up with a plan then the first step would be to pick your goals which you've done already
331	c: do you remember what you ? what did you ?
112	t: basketball cheerleading soccer
305	c: okay so now those are things that you would like to be able to do ? so if your plan is to get to the point where you can do those what would you ? what would be the first steps that you ?
112	t: basketball and i got to i have to keep i have to  i don know
307	c: okay did you lose your train of thought a little ? that's okay that happens to everybody sometimes
305	c: but you have this idea that you keep coming back to this basketball that you really it sounds like it's a very important thing for you
306	c: would it be okay if i have a plan in here that we could look at to kind of guide our ideas would it be okay if i take it out for us to use as a ?
302	c: okay let's see so so this is kind of one way to think about remember i said i was going to help you think about what you'd like to do and how you might be able to do ? you've already said that your plan is to be able to play basketball ?
331	c: why do you want to do ?
112	t: because it's my favorite sport and my uncle used to be a basketball player and that's why inaudible
309	c: okay alright so you have some pretty big aspirations
311	c: you'd like to really meet some strong goals because you have somebody in your family who was a basketball player and it's your favorite sport you would like to play too
328	c: so i'm going to shift gears for a moment here and think about you said earlier that you kind of knew the first step that you needed to take in order to become a basketball player or to join a team would be to start eating healthier but you also said there was another step and that is that you could start doing some physical activity now like playing outside and going for walks ?
305	c: so what if we shift our thinking a little bit and think about if your plan is to do one or both of those things which would you like to take as your first ?
106	t: walking
313	c: walking okay
331	c: so if if so if my plan is to start walking then we look at this again and say why is that important to ? like why would it be important for you to start ? what would that ultimately lead ?
112	t: so i can so i can get used to it and keep and keep doing it mm-hmm and ã¢â‚¬â¦
309	c: yep i think you're right on right on target
311	c: so you can get used to it and keep doing it
331	c: and if you did that what do you think that could lead to a little down the ?
119	t: i might my my goal
311	c: yeah you wanted to play
112	t: basketball
311	c: basketball so that might be a first step okay so so if your plan is to start walking and you want to do that because you could get used to it yes
333	c: and eventually it would help you to play basketball okay so well let's think about how often you would need to walk
119	t: i inaudible 40 or 50%
327	c: okay when you when you say 40% or 50%
106	t: i mean i'm talking about walking like every day or most of the days
329	c: oh okay i understand
333	c: so if you did 40% or 50% how many days in a week would you think that would ?
106	t: six i think six a week and i would probably would lose some weight and thenã¢â‚¬â¦
310	c: so let's see how about as far as like a good starting ? do you think that that's where you could start out or would you have to start out a little bit slower than ? meaning a little bit less than that
106	t: start out start out a little bit closer
333	c: okay so let's see so if there are seven days in a week and do you think about during the first couple weeks how many days do you think you would want to walk to start out ?
305	c: and remember this is just a first step and you can change this later as you get better and better
106	t: it would probably be like ten or 11 weeks
311	c: okay so you see i see that you're thinking kind of in the long term like i see that there are some changes that i need to make today but you also see the benefit of doing it for a long time
308	c: which is great that that's where you're thinking
333	c: because that will prepare you for the different things that you'll need to okay good thinking okay so what about ? what would your plan be for today as far as walking ?
120	t: enjoy my ? and have fun mm-hmm go out mm-hmm and come back home okay that's it
312	c: so it sounds to me as though today is probably not the day that you're going to start walking because you have a birthday to celebrate so
306	c: what about ?
117	t: hmm yes yeah
305	c: yeah you said that pretty easily like oh yes tomorrow because it which which makes me think that this really is an important thing for you that you do want to start pretty soon
333	c: okay so what's your plan then for ?
106	t: get up early mm-hmm and go out for a walk okay with my brother okay and come back and go outside again and play with my friends or ride a bike
308	c: wow you have a lot of good ideas
328	c: those are all pretty active going for a walk with your brother and playing outside and riding your bike so i guess if we think about that then really your plan is a little bit bigger than just walking it sounds like your plan is to just get more exercise in general ? okay
306	c: do you mind if i write that down just so that i can because i would like to remember too laughs okay
305	c: so your plan is to  and you had earlier said why you wanted to start getting more exercise ? can you remind me why that's important to ?
112	t: why that's important to me is to why is that important to me to is to walk every day mostly for 40% or 50% mm-hmm and that would be six days in a week and i would probably lose some weight
330	c: mm-hmm
106	t: and come back home and then go back out mm-hmm ride my bike play with my friends and that's it then do it the next day and the next day and the next day
308	c: alright wow you've got a plan and it sounds like once you set it in motion you'll be doing it every day or almost every day
310	c: which is a pretty pretty good thing to do i mean you don have to do it every single day but i like your i like your ideas
305	c: so and ultimately what's the reason that you're doing all ? what do you want to get out of ? you said earlier
112	t: so i can play basketball
311	c: ! the big goal so you can play basketball
306	c: alright so this does that capture what you were ? is there anything else that you'd like to add to ?
117	t: no
302	c: okay so sometimes when people have a plan that they would like to do no matter how important it is to them sometimes something gets in the way
344	c: what do you think could get in your way that would make it hard to do your walking the way that you plan ?
109	t: my grandmother
343	c: okay tell me a little more about that
109	t: she like to walk mm-hmm she like to walk every day and she's elderly and her doctor said she have to walk a lot and when i go walking my father have to go with us and me and my brother will walk a long way sometimes and she get tired and we have to stop somewhere and we have to go back home and we have to keep on doing it and take care of inaudible
326	c: i think i understand it seems that you're a little conflicted because on one hand you've got your grandma who's going to be walking anyways but on the other hand sometimes she's not able to keep going and you have stop or you have to just take her back home
119	t: yeah stop and stop
306	c: okay so what should i write for ?
109	t: you can write that we have to be walking and have to take my grandmother with us and her doctor said we have to that she has to walk and you take her you take her and we have to keep on stopping then she'll get tired and then take her back home
306	c: okay does that capture what you were ?
117	t: yes
333	c: alright what do you think you could do if that ? like what's
112	t: i have to get used to it okay and that's another reason i need to keep playing because she is always going to be like that and that's it
311	c: okay one solution that you just mentioned is that you'll just have to get used to it because she has some needs and part of what you may have to do is understand those
333	c: is there anything else that you could do that could make sure that this could happen even if you do have to go and you do have to ? is there anything else that you could do to make sure you do your ? ?
302	c: some people have told me before because i've worked with a number of people who've been kind of in your position where there's something they really want to do but they kind of have to do it in a way that other people can do it with them sometimes what they decide to do is okay well you know my grandma needs to walk and i'll go with her but later i'm going to go out with my brother and walk again
305	c: i mean is that something that might work for ?
117	t: that's okay
306	c: and is there anything else you'd like to put ? no okay
328	c: inaudible your brother so let's see we talked about this part a little bit earlier the first step that you could take and you're not ready to do something today because it's your birthday but you did say
305	c: what did you ? that you could start on it
106	t: tomorrow
305	c: okay what would you like for me to write ?
106	t: i will get up in the morning mm-hmm me and my brother will get up in the morning tell our parents that we're going to walk and we will walk to the family dollars and back and come i'll come back home go outside again play with my friends and run around
308	c: that's a pretty specific plan i love it this seems like it's detailed you have a plan for getting up and what time and where you're going to go and what you're going to do afterwards are you always this skilled at doing ?
328	c: sometimes this seems like it's working pretty pretty well for you so so now you mentioned earlier that you had a number of people that could help you you mentioned your mom and you mentioned your sisters and your nephew
112	t: my mom
331	c: okay what do you think your mom could do to help ?
112	t: tell me to stay on the right track and don pay attention to nobody and and just try your best at whatever you're trying to do
305	c: and that sounds ? alright well now you have a specific plan and i know that your idea was just to talk about it and keep it in your head so if you don want to take this with you you don need to but if you've changed your mind and you would like to i can stick it in this folder which you're going to get when you leave
119	t: take it
301	c: okay it's already written out laughs so at this time in a moment i'm going to have you switch places with your mom and i'm going to talk with her for a little bit about some of the same things that you and i talked about i don have to share this plan with her this could be something that you share in a way that you decide to so i would like to know what you would like me to do because after i meet with your mom you'll come back in and i'll meet with both of you together
305	c: would you like to have me share your plan or some part of it or just kind of talk about it ? would you prefer to share it when you come back in with your mom ? or just kind of talk about it ?
119	t: you share the plan
301	c: okay would it be okay if i show it to her or do you just want me to talk about ?
119	t: you can show her
306	c: okay well alright so before i take you in the other room to meet with the research assistants and to do the taste test are there any questions that you ?
117	t: no
308	c: okay so you did a super good job of coming up with a detailed plan so this will be very helpful to you when you start to use it
301	c: so i'm going to stick this in here and let me take you back out and then i'll see you again in a few minutes with your mom ?
