301	c: so i'm here to talk with you a little bit about some ideas that you might have regarding your weight and whether you'd like to do anything differently to manage and before we get started i just wanted to let you know that this is the part of your session with us that the video cameras are on and also just to tell you a little bit about confidentiality whenever you talk to somebody like me your things that you say are private and confidential unless you give me permission to share them with somebody like your mom fore example or if you were to tell me that you were going to hurt yourself or somebody else or that an elderly person or a child is in trouble but other than that everything you say is confidential
117	t: okay
306	c: do you have questions about ?
117	t: no
305	c: and the other thing is that in our conversation today we're here largely just to talk over some ideas about you know a plan that you might want to come up with so this might be a little bit different from talks you may have had with a doctor or nurse for example because i'm not going to tell you what to do but i can help you make a plan for things that you may want to do ? so i'll talk with you for about 20 minutes and then talk with your mom for about 20 minutes and then bring the two of you together and we'll all talk for about 15 or 20 minutes again so what questions can i answer for ?
112	t: i mean my mom she try to motivate me to work out but it-i need somebody that's going to make me she try to make me but i end up stopping i need somebody that's going to need to just like as if it was my school work or something somebody that's going to push me to it because she was trying to make me do it and it would start hurting so i stopped
311	c: okay so you had some ideas for things that you'd like to do for working out but you feel like you really need somebody to take charge and if they did that you feel like you could follow through
103	t: because she go to the-she have a trainer so she come home and show me what they be doing and i did it and i stopped because it start hurting and she like "keep going" and i sat down i need somebody that's like "keep going don stop" like when i used to have gym and he used to talk like "keep going or you're going to get a low grade" and it motivate me and i kept going
311	c: okay so you've had some experience already with having somebody really motivate you in the way that you feel like you really need and so that sounds like you've already got some ideas in your head as to what you'd like to do so if you don mind if we could backtrack for just a minute and just talk for a second about what you think about your weight and what you would like to do
112	t: okay for me be the age that i am i would like to-i would want to weigh less what i weigh is too high for me to get motivated that's how i would want to lose some of my weight
331	c: okay do you have a particular ideal in mind like a particular weight that you're hoping to ?
112	t: at least 125 if it's
311	c: okay so you're really looking to make some pretty big changes it sounds like and you have some ideas in your head about what you'd like to do
112	t: the things that my mom do she got the exercises that she do they let-'cause she slimming down so i would want to keep with that
311	c: so you see that things are working for her and kind of like i think i could do that
112	t: yeah and she get motivated and he telling her "no don stop" i need somebody like that because she can tell me but i inaudible
331	c: okay okay so how important is it to ? how important is that to you to make a big ?
311	c: you mentioned that you wanted to slim down to about you said 125
331	c: how important is that to you to make a big ?
112	t: that's real important
331	c: ? so if we were to measure it out on a scale of one to ten with one being not at all important ten being the most important thing in your life where would you put ?
112	t: most important ten
345	c: what'd you ?
112	t: ten
311	c: a ten okay so it's right up it's at the top then the most important thing that you want to do so now you've mentioned some about some physical activity that you think would be helpful to ?
331	c: and are you aware of other thing that people do when they want to lose ?
119	t: people came in inaudible
345	c: excuse ?
112	t: some people take they take medicine but i don i don want to do that i just want to get it off like working it working it off cleanly used to it and some people like they jump rope stuff things like that because i was at my best friend house and it was me her two little brothers and her momma we was playing a game with the jump rope see who could go the longest then it feel like we was all tired and we just kept going and kept going to see who get the highest number and it was like it was fun and you could see i want like i want to do things that going to make me lose weight and that be fun at the same time like that that was fun racing stuff things like that
328	c: okay so the two big things i heard from you are that you see physical activity some kind of workout that's fun is an important thing to do and also you mentioned that some people you know take medicine but it sounds like that doesn appeal to you
119	t: it's like when they take the medicine it don make them slim down like get bigger
308	c: well that's a really good point that you make
310	c: is that medicine's probably not the best choice for everybody because you said yourself that you want to learn how to do things that will last for years to come meaning that you get into a routine and you can
112	t: and i can keep going and it's going to be painful but eventually when i keep doing it and keep doing it constantly doing it i wouldn get tired but i would be motivated and would just get up exercise on my own
311	c: so you see that things will change in the future that it might be hard at first but later it will be easier yeah
308	c: that sounds like a really great idea i like the way that you think about that
112	t: we got we have the we have a lot of sports i like basketball but like when i get in front of people-like i like dancing we have a cheering team a dance team a majorettes team flag girl i would want to do that though when i get in front of people i get shy but people my friends they can motivate me say get on the cheering team because you know how to do everything just get on the cheering team and that will help you to lose weight and it will be fun so so the next tryouts i'm going to do it
311	c: okay yeah that's that's i mean gosh you know working out with a team of people sounds like another way that you could really get into being motivated because somebody will make you do it and it will be fun which are the two things that you said that you were looking ?
301	c: what about i want to put another choice on the table for you to think about and that is changing food changing the way that you eat or how much that you eat
305	c:  have you ever thought about ?
106	t: yes like well we haven-we don eat a lot of fast food like my father he have high blood pressure and i have diabetes so i don like we haven been eating a lot of fast food my mom or my dad somebody will cook make a sandwich or a salad or something like for the last couple of weeks we only had we went out twice to eat last night we had chicken from the restaurant and mcdonald's i think it was just was twice
305	c: okay and so overall what do you think about your ?
309	c: i mean i hear a number of positive ?
305	c: and do you see anything that you might want to work on ?
112	t: yes it's like more vegetables but it's like certain kind like string beans i like string beans corn i like carrots but i like the dry carrots i don like the mixed vegetables
331	c: so like the ones that are ?
117	t: yeah
310	c: yeah those make a really great snack too yep so you see a need to maybe add some more vegetables into your diet
332	c: and what about drinks like do you drink pop or anything like ?
112	t: well my mom when she go to buy pop she get diet pop and she gets a little tea for my little brother and little sister
328	c: okay well so you've talked through a number of really great ideas and you came up with some pretty specific ones you want to work out in way that's going to be fun that involves somebody who can really kind of be a drill sergeant if you will laughs you know really get you going you also mentioned adding some more vegetables into your diet and that that might help ?
305	c: if i was to help you come up with a plan for what you would really likes to focus on kind of the next step to take what would you like to work ?
120	t: like as far as ?
305	c: yeah sure or food change any-i mean that's so if i take a step back what i'm asking is if i can help you come up with a plan for yourself to take home and work on what would you like the plan to be focused on and would you like a ?
112	t: exercising and changing my food habits
301	c: okay all righty so i have a little sheet that we can use if you would like to take a look at it that just is really the outline of a plan that kind of organizes it so that it's easy to follow and you can decide if you would like to pull it out or not let's see it sounds like you are very interested in doing something differently ? so you mentioned that you might like to do more exercise and change something to do with eating so maybe we can talk a little bit more about specifics in what you would like to do i can help you sort through some of the details if you would like and then we might think about what are your motivators why is it important to ? you can also think about what could possibly get in your way do you know why that might be important to think ?
103	t: yes because some people they get motivated on things and then like they okay for example i'll just use myself i'll get home exercise and then my mama call me ask me to do something else and then when i do it i just stop exercising and just lay down watch tv or i'm with my little brother or my little sister
314	c: you kind of get off track
109	t: or the phone rings
312	c: and so if you're-if i'm understanding correctly you have a sense that there are some things that could take you off ?
331	c: so what do you think about the importance to be able to plan for what you're going to do about those things when they come ?
120	t: can you say that ?
331	c: yeah why do you think it might be important to plan for what you're going to do about those kinds of things when they come ?
117	t: well
307	c: it's hard to think about it ? laughs yeah
302	c: i have some ideas i can share with you if you want to hear them
306	c: so when people make a really important plan like what you're talking about maybe coming up with a workout plan for example they often realize that it might not always happen but sometimes things are going to get in the way so you mentioned your mom might ask you to do something or your brothers might come in or something and then instead of getting back on track you stop and you sit down or you lay down and watch tv and if you know that those kinds of things can get in your way and stop you from working out then you can plan ahead and say you know what whenever somebody stops me or interrupts me what i'm going to say is "would you please ask me to do that in about 15 minutes i'd like to finish my work ? and so it's kind of like-and that may not be exactly what you decide to do but that's an example of what people sometimes do to manage in other words if they can plan ahead then they don have to try to think of what to do in a minute they already have in mind what they're going to be when the problem happens so does that sound like a reasonable ?
106	t: yes then when i have music like it motivates me more because i start dancing and it's during a lot of stuff i dance with my little brother and my little sister we play wrestle a lot play in the bed just do a lot of stuff when we turn on the music and it make me go quicker like i can see myself having on the music and exercising it'd be-it wouldn just be boring and tiring i would be having fun while i'm exercising
311	c: so the music really feeds into your energy level and it's i hear that word fun again that you mentioned before
106	t: just like when i'm cleaning up like i be bored you know washing the dishes inaudible the music and it makes me go faster like i got something to do later but i don but i just be washing like go like quicker and be done and then when i'm done i still play with my little brother and sister like we go outside for a minute play with the dogs and then come back in the house
309	c: wow okay
120	t: i let them play with the neighbor
305	c: so music is really key for you in being motivated isn ?
112	t: i can do music with my homework and it makes me do things quick
311	c: so you've really got a tool there that you can use and it sounds as though you've had some experience that says it's pretty effective really makes you energized okay well
301	c: well so and this the only other pieces of it are just thinking about what the first step is to do today so once you've come up with a plan and thought about what can get in your way and then you think okay when i leave here today the very first thing i can do to help me make-be successful with my plan is and we can kind of talk through what that might be and figuring out who might be able to help you you mentioned that you really wanted somebody to kind of push you and you know we could figure out who that is that you need to do ?
305	c: ? so what do you ? do you want to try to write one out or do you want to just talk through ?
112	t: i could try to write it out
301	c: okay well i'm going to put the pen in your hands then and before you start writing maybe we should talk it through so you have a shorter thing that you can ?
305	c: what do you want your plan to be ?
120	t: like what you mean like what do you ?
301	c: you mentioned that you wanted to some more working out you mentioned a little bit about changing what you eat if you were to pick one of those to focus on at first you can always add the other one in later what one would you like to start ?
112	t: working out
333	c: okay so what specifically would you like to do for working ?
106	t: something that's going to make my stomach go down and then i'll do my arms and my legs
313	c: so you want to start with abs workouts it sounds ?
333	c: how often do you think you want to do ?
106	t: three times in a week
309	c: okay so you have a pretty good idea of what a healthy amount of exercise is and for the three times a week what do you picture yourself-how long do you picture yourself working ?
106	t: well have the music on then you go quick so i really wouldn know if i'm just doing it like i wouldn-it would seem like it would take all day but if i have on my music the time will go like it will fly by so like i'll start off with 30 or 40 minutes and then as i see that it's flying by i would like add on add one a minute or 20 minutes stuff like that
308	c: that sounds like an excellent plan you've got some good information about how long is a good amount of time to work out especially when you're first starting
306	c: did you get hat information from ? are you just ?
309	c: it's a really good guess so laughs
302	c: if you would like me to i have a sheet i can show you that talks about how long to work out so this you're going to get all of these sheets to take home but this sheet right here i think speaks to exactly what you were talking about that is that if you were to work out three days a week with a goal of getting up to 60 minutes of high intensity workout that's like where your heart's really pounding and maybe it's difficult for you to talk when you're working out really hard because you have to take so many breaths so the recommendation is to start here with stretching to add in some strength but the big piece is to add in the 60 minutes of what they call aerobic exercise three days a week there are some examples several of which you mentioned
106	t: like walking fast i'm used to it because when i'm walking at school my friends be speeding up and i'm i catch up and then they be tired
310	c: so you already have some ideas on how fast is fast walking and you already do some of that yeah so you should be able to use the skills that you already have and maybe this will help to give you some guidelines on how often to do it
301	c: okay i'm going to put unless you had any questions i'm just going to stick this back in the folder
117	t: no
305	c: okay so so if we were to put your plan into one sentence what would you say that your plan ?
106	t: my plan is to motivate myself and do my plan is to motivate myself and work harder
333	c: okay what about do you want to say anything about your three days a week and 30 minutes to start ?
106	t: oh my plan is to motivate myself and work out or exercise three days a week for 30 to maybe for about i might be able to go for half an hour with the music
308	c: that sounds like a really good place to start yeah you know and over time you'll find like you mentioned earlier that it can increase but that sounds like a great place to start i couldn have said it better myself
301	c: laughs so if you want to write that down if you're comfortable with that wording stick it down there
305	c: all right so what about the ? you said that you have a lot of motivation already but you feel like you need some more what motivates you particularly about this ? why did you say this is really what i want to ?
112	t: how i want to i think i'm too young to weigh that i weigh so i would want to lose some weight so like i wouldn have to really-from the diabetes i wouldn really have to do much
311	c: so a couple things that you're talking about are that you feel like you're too young to weigh what you weight and that there are some health reasons why you want to weigh less it's not just like you have this idea but you have some ?
305	c: so how do you think you might say that in a ?
120	t: i would want to do this because-to can i get a ?
301	c: oh yeah let me get you some i'll be right back it's that time of year isn ? yep i was just going to say that's probably the best thing to do inaudible
112	t: why i want to do this is it because i think i'm too young for-because i think i'm too young to weigh what i weigh and from health reasons
308	c: all right perfect you're like an old pro at this laughs
328	c: so then you have a plan in mind something that you're working towards and you reminded yourself of the reasons so that someday if you're not feeling so motivated you could look at this and say oh yeah i really do want to do this and this is why so you mentioned earlier there might be some things that could stop you from doing your work outs the way that you plan ?
305	c: do you want to jot down a couple of ?
311	c: laughs so looks like you have several different idea
305	c: do you mind sharing with me what you came up ?
106	t: i will try and get back to exercising tell whoever needs me to wait for about 15 to 20 minutes or ask if they need anything before i start
308	c: oh wow yeah this is really good planning ahead i like that
313	c: so let's see so one thing that you mentioned is that you try to get back into your order exercising okay and that you told wait whoever interrupts you to wait and that you'd ask before you start so that's a lot of planning ahead you know for stuff that you can do before you start in the first place and if somebody interrupts you you know two plans for what to ?
309	c: so those are really nice ideas
344	c: and who do you think might interrupt ?
109	t: my little brother and my little sister the phone and my dad asking to do anything
312	c: okay so you have a few people that you feel like could interrupt you
109	t: but mostly it would be my little brother and my little sister
301	c: okay well should we maybe jot down that those are the people that you expect to interrupt you the most and that way you can kind of be prepared
328	c: so with these really great ideas that you already have you have a plan where you already know who's most likely to interrupt you and you know what you're going to do you have three different things that you can do
331	c: how confident do you feel that you can really manage if you get interrupted or do you need more ?
106	t: i think i could if i really if i really try i think i could get back to it and so or try to hurry up and do what they ask me to do and hurry up and get back to what i'm doing or sometimes my little brother when i'm doing it my little brother or my little sister they could they could come in there help do it with me we could start dancing
308	c: sounds like that would be fun too that's a really nice way to kind of solve the problem is that if they're going to interrupt you they might as well join in and then
109	t: but then they they always think my room is the party room so when i say get out they want to cry and whine so i say come on come back in
307	c: that can be hard to manage
308	c: but it sounds like you've got a big heart laughs so that must be why they like you so ?
106	t: i could start doing some of the exercises that my mom showed me
309	c: wow okay so you
106	t: get some more weights because those weights heavy
345	c: ?
109	t: yeah got 30 pound weights
312	c: wow those are pretty heavy
120	t: but she used 20 pounds
345	c: is she working up to the 30 ?
328	c: so things that your mom has a lot of stuff that you can use already you mentioned that she has some ideas because she works out and you mentioned that she has the weights so the first step that you can do today is to just do a workout ?
308	c: that sounds like a great plan no time like the present ?
331	c: now who would you like to really support you in the changes that you're ?
117	t: i don really i don really know
311	c: okay you mentioned that your mom has tried to that she's tried to tell you you know to get back on track or she's tried to be supportive in some way
112	t: and not quitting
331	c: yeah do you feel like she could really be the drill sergeant for you and kind of keep you going or do you need somebody different who could do ?
112	t: i need somebody stronger yeah
331	c: okay who would that ? can you think is there anybody in your house or maybe in your friendship circle or in your extended ?
112	t: my best friend because when she was over my house she was like "come on let's do yoga" and my best friend i call her my sister destiny
331	c: okay and do you feel like she's around often enough that that would really be able to be a big help with your three times a ?
112	t: because when people ask me they like "do you want some ? before i even say no she like "don ask her no more"
309	c: wow
112	t: like inaudible and then she when she buy me stuff from the store she make sure she check the calories the everything
308	c: wow what a really supportive friend you have yeah i'm really impressed to hear that that it sounds like she's been a big help to you
120	t: yeah we buy-like some friends be like "i want my money back when you done" whatever i buy you i want my money back we buy each other things
301	c: all right so let's write destiny down so you could say something like maybe just cross out the word my and put something destiny could do to help you you just-yeah you just stick her name in somewhere there
331	c: so if you think about what specifically do you think she could do to help you reach your goal what is it that you would need from her
112	t: she could be there and inaudible 'cause we could both do it because she swear up and down that she is big she thinks she's getting big she getting a little fat stomach but
327	c: it sounds like you don agree with that
112	t: yeah but she's like "we need to start exer"-she be saying "we need to start exercising 'cause i'm getting big" stop eating
310	c: well you know the good thing that you're picking up on though is that you have a friend that is willing to exercise with you and regardless of whether a person is big or getting big or not big at all everybody can benefit from exercise
120	t: 'cause yesterday was her birthday and tomorrow she having a bowling party and saturday she having a hotel party
327	c: wow good deal
301	c: well let's figure out something if it's okay with you that she could do or say i think you mentioned maybe her working out with you and then you'll have a full complete plan that you can take home with you
106	t: i'm going to show her too
330	c: oh yeah go ahead feel free bless you
120	t: okay gotta figure out something else
305	c: okay well as i mentioned earlier this is a plan for you for you to take home and you can follow it and if you want to add to it at some point again it's your plan so you know as you see changes are needed to it you just make them
301	c: some day you may find you need a different plan because you feel like you've gotten all you're going to get out of this one and it's time to move up to the next level you know so this is meant to give you some ideas on how you can come up with plans that will really help you to follow through use the great information that you have in a way that's helpful to ?
306	c: what questions can i answer for you about the plan or the other things that we've talked ?
120	t: you've answered it all
309	c: oh good okay i'm really pleased to hear that
301	c: so at this time i'm going to in a moment get your mom and i think there's a little bit of work to do with the research assistants and then they'll probably have you wait in the waiting room for a couple minutes and you know something comes to mind during that time that you'd like to mention when the three of us are together you'll certainly have opportunities because i want to make sure i give you plenty of chances to talk how do you think we should share this plan with your mom or do you want to share it with your ?
119	t: you could share it with her
301	c: and would you like me to show it to her or just talk about ?
119	t: you can show it to her
301	c: okay sounds good well i'm going to put it away for now and then in a couple of minutes i'll show it to her and then what about once the three of us are together how would you like to be able to talk about your ? would it help if i just said "would you like to share your plan with your mom tell her what we've talked ? okay that sounds good and then we'll kind of talk through she'll have some ideas and you'll have some ideas and we'll kind of talk through those together okay let's go out in the other room you can either bring your stuff or leave it whichever you're comfortable with
119	t: i'll leave it here
301	c: okay would you like to take the tissues with ? it's that sneezy time of year ?
