301	c: just now before we get started we wanted to just take a minute to let you know that this is the part of our session where we turn the ?
305	c: on and this might be a little bit different from the kind of meeting you've probably had with doctors when they come and tell you what to do and you know give you some orders or kind of boss you around a little bit that's not what i'm here today so our meeting is really for you and i to talk through some ideas for weight management and for me to help you come up with some ideas on what if anything you'd like to do so i'm here to support and help you laughs okay 'cause we find that that just doesn really work you know we tell people what to do when we send them out and it's just not that helpful and so laughs
332	c: have you had that experience ? yeah what do you think of ?
120	t: it's weird it's like i kind of keep up with what i have to do
305	c: yeah it might be better if it comes from yourself because you're the expert in your own life and so you have a better sense of what you can and can ?
301	c: so you and i will spend about 20 minutes together and then i'll meet with your mom for about 20 minutes and then the three of us will come back together for about that long 15 to 20 minutes ?
343	c: so how about if we start with just talking about what you think about your ? would that be ?
117	t: yeah
343	c: okay so what do you ?
112	t: i don know i think i could lose some weight i should that i should but i don know
325	c: but you don know
109	t: i haven really though about it
331	c: okay well so have you talked to anybody else about that idea of whether or not you ?
117	t: hmm not really
311	c: ? okay
331	c: well so if you don mind me asking what brought you guys in ?
112	t: we had gotten a letter in the mail about the 0:01:59 thing and we thought it would be a good idea
331	c: okay so why did you think it was a good ?
112	t: i think i could be healthier than i am now
308	c: okay well that's you know certainly a really great thought to think you know like in terms of ?
302	c: you know because when people think about whether or not they want to lose weight that's generally one of the reasons they think about is whether they're healthy or not
305	c: so what are your thoughts about you said you feel like you could be healthier but you're not really ?
331	c: okay in what areas do you think you could be ?
103	t: like i eat a lot of junk food sometimes and like a lot of greasy foods fried foods and stuff
311	c: okay so you kind of have a sense that maybe there are some things you could do differently as far as eating goes okay
331	c: and has that caused you any problems so far or ?
117	t: no not really
325	c: okay alright so you're kind of at a point it sounds like where you think well you know maybe i could be a little bit healthier and that might involve losing weight and it might involve changing some things about the way i eat but it might ?
331	c: is that fair to ?
117	t: something like that
331	c: okay what part did i ?
112	t: i'm trying to say that i might could change- i mean i can change things i just may need some help before i really
307	c: oh i gotcha yeah it's hard to do it by yourself ?
302	c: well would it be helpful if you looked in a chart to see where your weight is compared to other people your ? okay so you know that they weighed you in the other room before you came in here and they calculated out where you fall compared to other young ladies your age and let's see
306	c: have you ever seen one of these growth charts ?
117	t: mm-hmm
302	c: okay so just to kind of remind you of how they work the green area is the area for average weight so it would be healthy weight this area is overweight this is underweight and this red area is obese ?
306	c: so if you had to guess where would you say that your weight ?
119	t: somewhere in here
305	c: so how does that fit with what you were ?
119	t: it's really more than i thought
310	c: yeah it's different like you you didn guess that 'cause you thought that you were overweight but not obese and this is pretty high up there on the obese range ?
306	c: do you have questions about what that means ?
101	t: not that i know of
331	c: 05:06 ? okay well how does that change the way you think about whether or not you could lose weight or ?
117	t: i don know
305	c: does this really mean anything to you at all as far as
117	t: mm-hmm
329	c: i don know how much background knowledge you have so it's hard for me to guess
112	t: it does
305	c: okay so as you're looking at this what are your thoughts about what should happen ?
112	t: i could lose weight and i should change like 0:05:42 and stuff
301	c: okay so well let me put this away so that we can talk about some of your other ideas that you ?
331	c: so if you're kind of thinking about wow you know i see that i was higher up on that scale than i thought i was and you know maybe that does mean that i need to make some changes you know how important is that to ?
112	t: it's very important it's very important it is because that's like if it's like i'm obese that's not very good and i should should 0:06:27 like a lot of kids my age that are healthy and not in that range
305	c: mm-hmm yeah so it seems like you've got some new information and it's kind of you're wondering how that fits together with what you need me ?
331	c: well so so i guess you know as you're saying that it's very important to you if you were to rate that on a scale of from one not very important at all to ten like the most important thing in your life right this minute where would you put yourself as far as importance of managing your ?
112	t: between like an eight and a nine
325	c: i wouldn have guessed that because when you first started talking i was thinking that probably you would have picked a lower number
331	c: what made you pick an eight or a nine and not like a ?
112	t: because well it does make things like sort of harder for me because of my weight and i think 0:07:28 07:30
331	c: okay so what kind of things
305	c: do you mind me ?
331	c: what what things that are harder for you
305	c: if you don mind me ?
112	t: like i played volleyball when i was in fifth grade and then like when i went to sixth grade like i couldn do like a lot of stuff that i did earlier and stuff like when i do stuff like walking around not walking but like moving a lot and running and stuff like that i can like consistently go on
311	c: oh okay so you have some limitations that that you think are related to weight okay
305	c: well what other thoughts do you have about 0:08:07 you know that this is kind of some new information that you got today and laughs
310	c: you know our focus is on weight so maybe we could talk a little bit about how that fits for you and where you might go from here
120	t: what's your ? could you just repeat the ?
305	c: yep yep i'm just kind of wondering how it fits for you this new information that you got with your ideas on what you might do that's fair enough so like i said earlier i mean this is this is your show i'm here to help you come up with ideas for what you may or may not want to do and if there are some changes you would like to make i can help you think through those so you know if you think about what you might want to do starting today or tomorrow even do you want to make any ? okay so what kind of changes do you think you would want to ?
112	t: like exercising and making healthier choices and stuff
311	c: okay so exercising more when you say healthier choices you mentioned earlier
112	t: like food and stuff
301	c: okay alright you mentioned that earlier so i thought that's what you were talking about i figured i'd better double check so
305	c: well you know given that you and i have a few minutes to talk through some of those we're probably not going to be able to make a lot of plans but i can help get you started so if you would like to i can help you make a plan to change either something about eating or something about activity do you have a ? ? okay well you know maybe one way to think about it is just to think which one do you think would benefit you the ? meaning if you made a change to the way that you ate or a change to the way that you exercise or have other kinds of activity which one do you think would be most helpful to ?
117	t: i don know 0:10:12
310	c: okay alright and you've been active before so maybe that would be something you might enjoy getting back ?
333	c: are you active right ?
302	c: ? okay so i have a couple things in here i can show you if that would help to give you some ideas on what you might do okay we have these little handouts and you're going to get all of these but we're just going to look at a couple of them for now let's see so when people want to think about you know and make plans for the way that they are active here are a couple things that they usually think about one is keeping track of what you do because you you know like anybody would probably have a tough time remembering every day like what specifically you did and for how long you did it and like if you watched tv or play on the computer or anything like that how long did you do ? 'cause that's time that you're not active you ? so one way to keep track of your activity is to use a log like this one or you could make your own where like each day of the week you write down what kind of exercise you did or activity you had how long and whether it was easy moderate meaning medium or vigorous activity so like softball when you played and you like ran the bases and you ran you know from the outfield to the infield and that that would be like vigorous activity if you did that for about 20 to 30 minutes or so or longer easy activity would be kind of like like if you walk around the block and maybe you walk kind of fast but it's that would be easy activity and then moderate activity might be something like jogging in place or running slowly or walking quickly would be another example and then some people find it helpful to keep track of how long they do things that involve like sitting down and not being active okay another option is to just set a goal for yourself to say okay you know ? three days a week i'm going to work up to the point where i'm doing 60 minutes each of those days of high intensity activity and aerobic activity is this kind of stuff like running or kickboxing dancing that kind of thing and then on top of it you know stretching and strengthening would be in addition to that if you wanted to do that ?
305	c: do either of these ideas appeal to ? do you like the idea of doing either one of ?
112	t: that one
311	c: that ? ?
305	c: what can you picture yourself ?
112	t: i have a wii fit game at home so i could probably do that
309	c: yeah okay and it keeps really good track of what you do too doesn ?
117	t: mm-hmm
301	c: yeah okay well let me put this one away and we can use that one to kind of come up with some ideas for ?
305	c: now would you be interested in making a plan for how you're going to go about doing making sure that you do this each day or three days a ?
301	c: okay so let's see let me show you the other paper that we have
302	c: this paper right here a lot of people find it helpful to kind of keep their thoughts organized and have a plan that they can turn to whenever they forget or want to remind themselves of what they're doing and so we could either talk through this or we could write it down whatever would be best for you but a lot of people say okay you know "i'm going to make my plan for myself and maybe your plan would be i'm going to exercise three days a week and work up to 60 minutes" you might have a different idea in mind that you want to start with we'd also try to figure out why that's important to you in other words what is your motivation for wanting to do ? what would you get out of ? okay and then we would spend a little bit of time talking about what could get in your way and stop you from reaching your goal and what to do about that so that you can reach your goal and we can also talk about what to do when you leave here today and who could help you
305	c: does that sound like a reasonable ? okay so what are your ? like if you wanted to make a plan or a goal for yourself to increase your exercise what would you say that you would want to work up ?
120	t: ?
302	c: you could pick a time you could pick like how many days of the week you could pick the kind of exercise anything that you feel like would be a good goal for yourself that would help with weight loss
106	t: probably every day like 15 minutes a day probably
313	c: okay so you see yourself as doing it more often but for less ?
308	c: and so that this is you know a starting point and i think that's a really great starting point especially given that you said that you you're not active right now that's probably a really good place to start
333	c: would you see yourself working up to a point where you could work a little bit longer than 15 ?
117	t: mm-hmm
308	c: okay alrighty that's good that you kind of know where you should start ?
305	c: okay do you want to write that down as part of your ? and why would it be important to you to start exercising every day for 15 ?
112	t: because i don want to put too much on myself at one time i want to like start slowly
305	c: mm-hmm yep so one thing is you want to start where you know you can be successful ? and why do you even want to do it at ? like what's your real motivation that's pushing you even to do ? okay alright well so i mean going back to earlier you mentioned that you felt like it might be healthier for you and so that might be one motivation i don know if that's something you think about all the time or not okay and if it's not then don write it down laughs so any other things that you feel like really are motivating you right ?
117	t: not really
308	c: okay alrighty so well you had a really nice ?
305	c: do you want to write down your what you ?
331	c: so if you think for a minute before we move on how confident do you feel right now that you can really do the 15 minutes a day every ?
112	t: very confident
331	c: okay so if we go back to our scale of like one not confident and ten most confident you've ever felt where would you put ?
112	t: probably about a seven
331	c: okay alright so why a seven and not a ?
106	t: because i could plan my schedule around 0:17:55 school from like 7:30 to 4:45 and then i get home and i do homework then 0:18:04 8:30
313	c: okay so despite having a really full schedule you still feel pretty i mean seven is pretty high so you still feel pretty confident that you're going to be able to work it in there somewhere ? ?
344	c: okay great so if you think for a minute about things that could possibly get in your way and make it so that you don do your exercise the way you planned what do you think might stop ?
117	t: i don know
344	c: do you ever think about like do people call you or do you have like other things that you have to go do or maybe you just think to yourself oh i know i was going to but i just don feel like ?
109	t: sometimes
329	c: i'm sorry i didn quite hear you
109	t: sometimes when i feel like doing stuff 0:18:52
326	c: so sometimes you just don feel like getting started
305	c: what if you were maybe writing that down as a thing that might get in your ? or might not
117	t: okay
307	c: i think a lot of people think that way sometimes it's hard to always keep going
117	t: mm-hmm
333	c: what do you think you might do if you have that ?
106	t: mmm try to find the strength to like actually not be lazy
331	c: okay where do you usually find your strength when you want to do something that is hard for ?
106	t: i just make myself do it
331	c: okay do you are there things that you say to yourself ?
117	t: hmm not really
302	c: yeah some people find it helpful to ask another person to like check up on them or maybe they write notes to themselves to kind of motivate like you know remember that you just are just going to do it or you know like the nike commercial that says just do ? some people stick like little post it notes around the house laughs so
333	c: what what would happen if you tried to talk yourself into just going and doing your 15 minutes and you really felt like you ? what would you do ?
115	t: i don know i'd probably just do it anyway or not do it at all 0:20:33
307	c: yeah it would be hard to ?
325	c: you might end up doing it or you might not
331	c: yeah do you think that maybe keeping track of it in some way would help you to stay ?
302	c: okay so that might be one thing you might think of as a possible solution like if it becomes a problem then you could keep track
331	c: what else like if you have a really hard ? what would be like would there be anybody you could ask to help ?
120	t: what do you mean like a hard ?
330	c: a really hard time like making yourself just do it
112	t: mmm i don think i would have a hard time doing it 0:21:14
302	c: okay the reason that i'm saying so much about this is because a lot of people do feel like they can just go ahead and do things that they said like they set a goal for themselves and they say you know ? if i don feel like doing it i'm just going to do it anyways and that may be true most of the time but every once in a while you might run into a time when it's really hard to get past that and do it anyways and so that's what i'm trying to help you with right now is a plan for what if you have one of those days where laughs where it is hard you know ?
305	c: so if you don feel like there's anything that you can really do or will need to do then that's fine so what do you think the first step will be when you leave here today to get started on your ?
106	t: i don know get rid of negative energy 0:22:18
308	c: wow that's pretty sophisticated so get rid of some negative energy you ?
333	c: how would you go about doing ?
115	t: i don know i haven thought about that part i haven thought about that part yet
305	c: okay would it be helpful to you to talk through ?
301	c: so that might be the one thing then to that you could write down for your first step is to get rid of the negative energy and then you have some time to think about what the best way to do that is pause so what about that last ?
302	c: that's kind of an idea of you know people have an easier time being successful when they have other people help them in some way or when they can at least turn to another person when they need help
331	c: do you have anybody in your life that you can picture helping you to stick to the goal and make sure you make it every ?
112	t: my mom
331	c: okay so what could your mom do to help ?
112	t: if she's willing to she could do stuff with me
305	c: okay so on that last line what you could write down is something my mom could do that would help me would be to exercise with me or whatever it is that you're thinking that she could do pause so now you have one step in a plan to help you and now that we've talked through this you know you kind of have an idea of how to organize a plan if you want to come up with some other ideas like when you get to the point where 15 minutes is easy and you want to bump it up or make some other change that would be like the next higher level of doing activity you also mentioned working on changing eating so if you want to make a different plan for that you have an idea of how to do it ?
328	c: so now you have one step in a plan to help you and now that we've talked through this you know you kind of have an idea of how to organize a plan if you want to come up with some other ideas like when you get to the point where 15 minutes is easy and you want to bump it up or make some other change that would be like the next higher level of doing activity you also mentioned working on changing eating so if you want to make a different plan for that you have an idea of how to do it now so what you came up with was you said that you were going to exercise every day for 15 minutes and that that was important to you because i think you said what did you ? we will be healthier alright you felt like one thing that might get in your way is is getting lazy or just you know having a hard time getting started but at this point you don really feel like it's going to be hard to overcome that because you feel like you've had success in the past with just making yourself do it ? and then let's see for the first step was to get rid of some negative
306	c: energy and then you felt like your mom could really help out by exercising with you is there anything that you want to add or any questions i can answer for ?
117	t: no
308	c: okay so you have a nice plan i mean it looks like this is something that you can be successful with right away
301	c: at this point what i'm going to do is i'm going to take you out in the other room and i'm going to talk with your mom for a little bit and then we'll bring you back in how would you like to share this plan with your ? we could do that in a couple ways either you can share it when we all come together or i can share it with her and then we can talk it over when we all come together
119	t: you can show it to her
301	c: okay do you mind if i actually show her the ?
119	t: you can
301	c: okay that sounds good so when we all come back together one of the questions i'll ask you is what do you really want to ? what's your first ? and so i'll give you your plan to look at and you can talk it over with your mom some and she'll have a plan also to talk over with you ? and then you guys will be all done so alright let me put all this stuff back in here and i'll collect it up for your mom when she comes in can i stick your plan in ?
117	t: mm-hmm
308	c: okay thank you you have such nice handwriting too it's easy to read laughs
301	c: so let me take you out into the other room and i'll get your mom real quick our research assistants might have something to do with you for a couple minutes you can come right in here please laughs
